 BACKGROUND: Gefitinib, erlotinib and afatinib provide remarkable response rates and progression-free survival compared to platinum-based chemotherapy in patients with NSCLC harboring epidermal growth factor receptor-activating mutations, and are therefore standard first-line treatment in these patients. 
FINDINGS: Of the 1006 patients diagnosed with stage IIIb and IV NSCLC in the study period, 448 (44.5%) had EGFR-activating mutations and received first-line therapy with gefitinib (n = 304, 67.6%), erlotinib (n = 63, 14.3%), or afatinib (n = 81, 18.1%). 
INTERPRETATION: Afatinib and erlotinib provide significant benefits in progression-free survival compared to gefitinib in first-line treatment of patients with NSCLCs harboring EGFR-activating mutations. 
 We aimed to evaluate the efficacy of dual inhibition of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) with nimotuzumab (EGFR monoclonal antibody) plus gefitinib (EGFR-tyrosine kinase inhibitor) in advanced NSCLC after platinum-based chemotherapy. 
The dual inhibition of EGFR with nimotuzumab plus gefitinib was not associated with better outcomes than gefitinib alone as a second-line treatment of advanced NSCLC (NCT01498562). 
Randomised trials over the past 10-15 years have established pemetrexed (non-squamous histology), docetaxel, erlotinib and gefitinib as approved second-line agents in NSCLC without targetable driver mutations or rearrangements. 
Trials comparing these agents with other chemotherapy, evaluating the addition of an epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) to chemotherapy or the addition of another targeted agent to erlotinib or gefitinib have all failed to demonstrate an improvement in overall survival for patients with NSCLC. 
Nowadays, we dispose of three different EGFR TKIs (afatinib, erlotinib and gefitinib) approved for the treatment for first-line treatment of patients di NSCLC carrying EGFR, that was compared only by indirect analysis, producing data not always clear and convincing. 
Among these 52 NSCLC patients, there were 14 patients treated with gefitinib. 
This is the first randomized clinical trial that showed a significant and clinical meaningful OS benefit in EGFR mutation-positive NSCLC patients following maintenance therapy with gefitinib as compared to placebo. 
 Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) such as gefitinib, erlotinib, and afatinib are standard-of-care for first-line treatment of EGFR-mutant advanced NSCLC. 
Drugs interfering with the tyrosine kinase domain of the EGFR (EGFR TKIs), such as erlotinib and gefitinib, have demonstrated efficacy in patients with advanced NSCLC irrespective of therapy line and particularly in patients harbouring activating mutations in the EGFR gene (EGFR(mut+)). 
We evaluated the efficacy of second-line platinum-based chemotherapy after gefitinib for advanced NSCLCs harboring epidermal growth factor receptor mutations (the NEJ002 study). 
METHODS: Seventy-one NSCLCs, treated with gefitinib as first-line therapy and then receiving platinum-based chemotherapy as second-line therapy were evaluated in NEJ002. 
Gefitinib has been investigated in combination with radiotherapy for unresectable stage III NSCLC, but results in maintenance treatment after chemoradiotherapy were not encouraging. 
 OBJECTIVE: To analyze the efficacy and survival associated factors of gefitinib combined with cisplatin and gemcitabine for advanced NSCLC. 
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 57 patients with advanced NSCLC, who received platinum-based chemotherapy regimens for more than 1 cycle, were treated with gefitinib combined with cisplatin and gemcitabine until disease progression. 
CONCLUSIONS: Gefitinib combined with cisplatin andgemcitabine, is effective for patients with IIIb~IV NSCLC who received multiple cycles of chemotherapy. 
 The aim of this study was to determine the response of advanced-stage NSCLC patients with or without EGFR mutations to platinum-based chemotherapy with or without gefitinib maintenance. 
The results indicate that patients with advanced-stage NSCLC with EGFR mutations have a better response to chemotherapy followed by gefitinib than chemotherapy alone and a better response to chemotherapy than wild-type patients.KEYWORDS: chemotherapy, gefitinib, NSCLC, tyrosine kinase inhibitors. 
However, first-line gefitinib should not be recommended for advanced NSCLC patients only based on clinical factors, due to a very small sample-size in our study. 
 BACKGROUND: CTONG0806 assessed the efficacy of pemetrexed versus gefitinib as second-line treatment in advanced nonsquamous NSCLC harboring wild-type epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR). 
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients with locally advanced or metastatic nonsquamous NSCLC harboring wild-type EGFR, detected by direct sequencing, and previously treated with platinum-based chemotherapy were randomized to receive gefitinib (250 mg/day) orally or pemetrexed (500 mg/m(2)) i.v. 
CONCLUSIONS: CTONG0806 is the first trial to show significant improvement in PFS and an improved OS trend with pemetrexed compared with gefitinib as second-line setting treatment of EGFR wild-type advanced nonsquamous NSCLC. 
Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs), such as gefitinib, erlotinib or afatinib are the standard-of-care for patients with advanced NSCLC harbouring activating EGFR mutations. 
Clinical trials have demonstrated that the response to icotinib among advanced NSCLC patients who received at least one platinum-based chemotherapy regimen was not inferior to gefitinib. 
 BACKGROUND: Maintenance gefitinib significantly prolonged progression-free survival (PFS) compared with placebo in patients from eastern Asian with locally advanced/metastatic NSCLC after four chemotherapeutic cycles (21 days per cycle) of first-line platinum-based combination chemotherapy without disease progression. 
The objective of the current study was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of maintenance gefitinib therapy after four chemotherapeutic cycle's stand first-line platinum-based chemotherapy for patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with unknown EGFR mutations, from a Chinese health care system perspective. 
CONCLUSIONS: Maintenance gefitinib following first-line platinum-based chemotherapy for patients with locally advanced/metastatic NSCLC with unknown EGFR mutations is not cost-effective. 
We retrospectively reviewed 81 advanced NSCLC patients with disease progression following tumor response and durable (≥ 6 months) disease stabilization with first-line or second-line gefitinib. 
We aimed to investigate whether icotinib is non-inferior to gefitinib in patients with NSCLC. 
Drugs interfering with the tyrosine kinase domain of the EGFR (EGFR-TKI), such as erlotinib or gefitinib, demonstrated efficacy in patients with advanced NSCLC irrespective of therapy line and particularly in patients harboring activating mutations of the EGFR gene. 
 Chemotherapy with platinum agents is the standard of care for NSCLC; however, novel molecular-targeted agents like gefitinib have been approved for advanced NSCLCs, including recurrent cases previously treated with platinum-based chemotherapy. 
 BACKGROUND: Disease progression remains the major challenge in the management of advanced (stage IIIb or IV) NSCLC after the failure of first-line or second-line chemotherapy, or even of targeted therapies such as gefitinib. 
The current study evaluated the tolerability and efficacy of stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) in combined with gefitinib as a second-line or third-line treatment in patients with advanced NSCLC. 
CONCLUSIONS: The SBRT combined with gefitinib is a promising treatment strategy for advanced (stage IIIb or IV) NSCLC after the failure of previously chemotherapy. 
 Patients with advanced NSCLC and somatic activating mutations of the tyrosine kinase (TK) domain of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) gene represent a biologically distinct disease entity that shows exquisite sensitivity to the reversible EGFR-TK inhibitors (-TKIs) gefitinib or erlotinib. 
 A phase II clinical trial was performed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of gefitinib on pretreated Chinese female NSCLC patients. 
Chinese female patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC who failed at least one platinum-based chemotherapy received gefitinib monotherapy (250 mg/day) between April 2002 and January 2010. 
Gefitinib is a highly effective and well-tolerated agent for Chinese women with pretreated advanced NSCLC. 
Randomised trials over the past 10-15 years have established pemetrexed (non-squamous histology), docetaxel, erlotinib and gefitinib as approved second-line agents in NSCLC without targetable driver mutations or rearrangements. 
Trials comparing these agents with other chemotherapy, evaluating the addition of an epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) to chemotherapy or the addition of another targeted agent to erlotinib or gefitinib have all failed to demonstrate an improvement in overall survival for patients with NSCLC. 
In elderly patients with advanced epidermal growth factor receptor mutation-positive NSCLC, erlotinib and gefitinib appear to repeat the same favorable performance as that documented on a larger scale in the overall population of patients with activating mutations. 
The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) inhibitors, gefitinib, erlotinib and afatinib; the anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) inhibitor, crizotinib; and the anti-vascular endothelial growth factor receptor monoclonal antibody, bevacizumab, are already providing improved survival for patients with NSCLC. 
RESULTS: Between January 2010 and June 2014, a total of 24 EGFR-mutant NSCLC patients who had been previously treated with EGFR-TKIs (gefitinib, erlotinib, and/or afatinib) received EGFR-TKI rechallenge with bevacizumab. 
 PURPOSE: Gefitinib is an effective first-line chemotherapy for advanced NSCLC patients harboring sensitive EGFR mutations. 
Therefore, we here aimed to investigate the efficacy of platinum combination chemotherapy after first-line gefitinib treatment in NSCLC patients harboring sensitive EGFR mutations. 
METHODS/PATIENTS: We retrospectively evaluated the clinical effects of second-line platinum combination chemotherapy after first-line gefitinib treatment in NSCLC patients harboring sensitive EGFR mutations (exon 19 deletion or exon 21 L858R mutation) at five institutions. 
CONCLUSIONS: Second-line platinum combination chemotherapy after first-line gefitinib treatment in NSCLC patients harboring sensitive EGFR mutations was effective and showed equivalent outcomes to first-line platinum combination chemotherapy. 
Gefitinib has been investigated in combination with radiotherapy for unresectable stage III NSCLC, but results in maintenance treatment after chemoradiotherapy were not encouraging. 
 PURPOSE: Whether bevacizumab enhances the effect of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) inhibitor gefitinib on EGFR mutant NSCLCs (NSCLCs) remains unknown. 
We conducted a phase II trial to investigate the efficacy and safety of gefitinib when combined with bevacizumab as first-line therapy in patients with advanced NSCLC harboring EGFR gene mutations. 
CONCLUSION: Gefitinib in combination with bevacizumab as first-line therapy seems to be a favorable and well-tolerated treatment for patients with advanced NSCLC with activating EGFR gene mutations, especially those with EGFR exon 19 deletion mutations, although the primary end point was not met because the lower limit of the CI was less than 40%. 
 The availability of antineoplastic monoclonal antibodies, small molecules and newer cytotoxics such as pemetrexed, the EGFR-tyrosine kinase inhibitors erlotinib, gefitinib, afatinib as well as the anti-angiogenic bevacizumab and the ALK-inhibitor crizotinib has recently changes the treatment algorithm of advanced NSCLC. 
Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs), such as gefitinib, erlotinib or afatinib are the standard-of-care for patients with advanced NSCLC harbouring activating EGFR mutations. 
Currently, five molecular targeted agents were approved for treatment of advanced NSCLC: Gefitinib, erlotinib and afatinib for positive EGFR mutation, crizotinib for positive echinoderm microtubule-associated protein-like 4 (EML4)-ALK translocation and bevacizumab. 
 Drugs directed against Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR), namely tyrosine kinase inhibitors erlotinib and gefitinib, and anti-angiogenic agents, namely the anti-Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF) antibody bevacizumab, have independently demonstrated clinical benefit in the treatment of patients with advanced NSCLC, and are currently approved for use in clinical practice. 
Elderly patients affected by epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutated NSCLC benefit mostly from a tyrosine kinase inhibitor of EGFR (erlotinib, gefitinib) which is associated with a good toxicity profile. 
 BACKGROUND: VeriStrat(®) is a serum proteomic test used to determine whether patients with advanced NSCLC who have already received chemotherapy are likely to have good or poor outcomes from treatment with gefitinib or erlotinib. 
The EGFR inhibitors gefitinib and erlotinib have a definite activity in brain metastases from NSCLC with activating EGFR mutations. 
OS has been the principal endpoint influencing regulatory decisions regarding targeted therapies for metastatic NSCLC, including the vascular endothelial growth factor monoclonal antibody bevacizumab in the frontline setting and the epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors gefitinib and erlotinib in patients after prior treatment. 
Currently available agents with established role in NSCLC include the anti-EGFR tyrosine-kinase inhibitors (TKIs) erlotinib/gefitinib and the anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody bevacizumab. 
This randomized phase 2 study compared the efficacy of paclitaxel and carboplatin (PC) intercalated with gefitinib (G) versus PC alone in a selected, chemotherapy-naïve population of advanced NSCLC patients with a history of smoking or wild-type EGFR. 
 OBJECTIVE: Assess the cost-effectiveness of an EGFR-mutation testing strategy for advanced NSCLC in first-line therapy with either gefitinib or carboplatin-paclitaxel in Mexican institutions. 
 OBJECTIVES: The combination use of gefitinib and epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) testing is a standard first-line therapy for patients with NSCLC. 
CONCLUSION: The combination use of gefitinib and EGFR testing can be considered a cost-effective first-line therapy compared to chemotherapy such as carboplatin-paclitaxel for the treatment for NSCLC in Japan. 
We evaluated the efficacy of second-line platinum-based chemotherapy after gefitinib for advanced NSCLCs harboring epidermal growth factor receptor mutations (the NEJ002 study). 
METHODS: Seventy-one NSCLCs, treated with gefitinib as first-line therapy and then receiving platinum-based chemotherapy as second-line therapy were evaluated in NEJ002. 
CONCLUSIONS: NSCLC patients with a smoking history or the EGFR L858R mutation may demonstrate a poorer response to gefitinib treatment. 
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Chemotherapy-naïve patients with advanced non-squamous, EGFR-mutant NSCLC were randomly assigned to receive either a concurrent or a sequential alternating regimen with gefitinib (250 mg) and carboplatin/pemetrexed [area under the curve (AUC) = 6 and 500 mg/m(2); 3-weekly]. 
 Gefitinib, an epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor (EGFR-TKI), is an effective treatment for advanced NSCLC in patients with activating EGFR mutations. 
This was a multicentre, single-arm, phase II trial of carboplatin, S-1, and gefitinib in advanced NSCLC patients with activating EGFR mutations. 
Combination chemotherapy with carboplatin, S-1, and gefitinib is efficacious and well tolerated as a first-line treatment in advanced NSCLC patients with activating EGFR mutations. 
However, first-line gefitinib should not be recommended for advanced NSCLC patients only based on clinical factors, due to a very small sample-size in our study. 
Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs), such as gefitinib, erlotinib or afatinib are the standard-of-care for patients with advanced NSCLC harbouring activating EGFR mutations. 
The aim of this study was to determine whether the administration of gefitinib, a tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI), intercalated with pemetrexed/platinum could improve the efficacy in chemotherapy-naïve patients with advanced non-squamous NSCLC without subsequent gefitinib maintenance therapy. 
Treatment-naïve patients with stage IIIB or IV NSCLC were randomly assigned to receive pemetrexed (500 mg/m (2) d1) and either cisplatin (75 mg/m (2) d1) or carboplatin (AUC = 5 d1) plus gefitinib (250 mg/d on days 3 to 16 of a 3-week cycle) (PC-G) or pemetrexed-platinum (PC) alone. 
METHODS: In this open-label, phase II study, patients with resected stage IIIA-N2 NSCLC harbouring EGFR mutations (either exon 19 deletion or L858R point mutation) were assigned randomly to receive pemetrexed (500 mg/m(2)) and carboplatin (AUC = 5), administered every 21 days for 4 cycles, followed with or without gefitinib (250 mg/day) for 6 months. 
CONCLUSIONS: The administration of gefitinib following PC adjuvant therapy shows significant improvement in DFS in patients with resected stage IIIA-N2 NSCLC harbouring EGFR mutations. 
 BACKGROUND: This study was conducted to evaluate the efficacy and safety of paclitaxel-carboplatin combined with intercalated gefitinib in patients with advanced, untreated, nonsquamous NSCLC. 
CONCLUSIONS: The post-hoc analyses clearly demonstrated shorter survival for gefitinib-treated patients with uncommon EGFR mutations compared with the survival of those with common mutations and suggest that the first-line chemotherapy may be relatively effective for NSCLC with uncommon EGFR mutations. 
METHODS: The Iressa Alliance program provided standardized EGFR mutation testing and appropriate access to gefitinib to all patients in British Columbia with advanced, non squamous NSCLC. 
Thus, low-dose erlotinib may be effective and well tolerated by patients with NSCLC harboring EGFR mutations who are intolerant to gefitinib. 
 BACKGROUND: NEJ002 study, comparing gefitinib with carboplatin (CBDCA) and paclitaxel (PTX; Taxol) as the first-line treatment for advanced NSCLC harboring an epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutation, previously reported superiority of gefitinib over CBDCA/PTX on progression-free survival (PFS). 
Considering the many benefits and the risk of missing an opportunity to use the most effective agent for EGFR-mutated NSCLC, the first-line gefitinib is strongly recommended. 
 BACKGROUND: Gefitinib, a tyrosine kinase inhibitor, is an effective treatment in advanced NSCLC patients with an activating mutation in the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR). 
Therefore, this analysis evaluates the Quality Adjusted progression free survival of gefitinib versus three relevant doublet chemotherapies (gemcitabine/cisplatin (Gem/Cis); pemetrexed/cisplatin (Pem/Cis); paclitaxel/carboplatin (Pac/Carb)) in a Dutch health care setting in patients with EGFR M+ stage IIIB/IV NSCLC. 
CONCLUSIONS: In the Dutch health care setting, the previously established progression free survival benefit of first-line gefitinib in advanced NSCLC EGFR M+ patients in comparison to standard doublet chemotherapy is further supported by the Quality Adjusted PFS, which takes into account the additional health-related quality of life benefits of gefitinib over doublet chemotherapy. 
 BACKGROUND: For NSCLC patients with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations, first-line gefitinib produced a longer progression-free survival interval than first-line carboplatin plus paclitaxel but did not show any survival advantage in the North East Japan 002 study. 
METHODS: Chemotherapy-naïve patients with sensitive EGFR-mutated, advanced NSCLC were randomized to receive gefitinib or chemotherapy (carboplatin and paclitaxel). 
CONCLUSION: QoL was maintained much longer in patients treated with gefitinib than in patients treated with standard chemotherapy, indicating that gefitinib should be considered as the standard first-line therapy for advanced EGFR-mutated NSCLC in spite of no survival advantage. 
PATIENTS AND METHODS: This phase II study evaluated the efficacy of gefitinib 250 mg once daily in combination with thoracic radiotherapy (66 Gy in 6.5 weeks, 2 Gy/day, 5 fractions/week) followed by consolidation chemotherapy (IV cisplatin and vinorelbine) as first line treatment in a population of unselected stage IIIB NSCLC patients according to EGFR mutation status. 
 Several clinical trials indicate that concurrent administration of tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs, such as gefitinib or erlotinib) with chemotherapy agents fails to improve overall survival in advanced NSCLC patients. 
 First-Line Pemetrexed Plus Cisplatin Followed by Gefitinib Maintenance Therapy Versus Gefitinib Monotherapy in East Asian Never-Smoker Patients With Locally Advanced or Metastatic Nonsquamous NSCLC: Quality of Life Results From a Randomized Phase III Trial. 
 BACKGROUND: The efficacy results from an open-label, randomized, multicenter study found no significant difference in progression-free survival between pemetrexed plus cisplatin followed by maintenance gefitinib (PC/G) and gefitinib monotherapy (G) in patients with advanced nonsquamous NSCLC and unknown epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutation status (hazard ratio favored PC/G). 
These LCSS outcomes provide further evidence that patients with wild-type EGFR might not benefit from first-line treatment of advanced NSCLC with gefitinib. 
 First-Line Pemetrexed plus Cisplatin followed by Gefitinib Maintenance Therapy versus Gefitinib Monotherapy in East Asian Never-Smoker Patients with Locally Advanced or Metastatic Nonsquamous NSCLC: Final Overall Survival Results from a Randomized Phase 3 Study. 
 INTRODUCTION: The primary analysis of this open-label, randomized, multicenter phase 3 study revealed no significant difference in progression-free survival between pemetrexed plus cisplatin followed by maintenance gefitinib (PC/G) and gefitinib monotherapy (G) in patients with advanced nonsquamous NSCLC and unknown epidermal growth factor receptor gene (EGFR) mutation status; however, the hazard ratio favored PC/G. 
 OBJECTIVE: Gefitinib is effective epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR-TKI) for advanced NSCLC patients, but with the drug use, inevitable gefitinib-resistance and severe complications were observed and resulted in failure treatments. 
The purpose of the present study was to investigate the curative effect of different treatment of navelbine plus cisplatin in combination with gefitinib and gefitinib single on gefitinib-resistance advanced NSCLC patients. 
METHODS: Total Of 120 patients acquired gefitinib-resistance NSCLC patients treated in Taian City Central Hospital of Shandong province from May, 2010 to June, 2014 were incorporated in our study according to the inclusion and exclusion criteria. 
 Tolerability and Outcomes of First-Line Pemetrexed-Cisplatin Followed by Gefitinib Maintenance Therapy Versus Gefitinib Monotherapy in Korean Patients with Advanced Nonsquamous NSCLC: A Post Hoc Descriptive Subgroup Analysis of a Randomized, Phase 3 Trial. 
 PURPOSE: We recently reported on a randomized, open-label, phase 3 trial comparing pemetrexed-cisplatin chemotherapy followed by gefitinib maintenance therapy (PC/G) with gefitinib monotherapy in patients with NSCLC. 
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Patients, who were ≥ 18 years, chemonaïve, Korean, light ex-smokers/never-smokers with advanced NSCLC, were randomly assigned (1:1) to PC/G or gefitinib monotherapy. 
CONCLUSION: Our results confirm that both PC/G and gefitinib were well tolerated in Korean patients, regardless of EGFR status; however, patients with EGFR wild-type NSCLC may not benefit from gefitinib monotherapy. 
We aimed to assess the efficacy and safety of continuing gefitinib combined with chemotherapy versus chemotherapy alone in patients with EGFR-mutation-positive advanced NSCLC with acquired resistance to first-line gefitinib. 
Eligible patients were aged at least 18 years with histologically confirmed, chemotherapy-naive, stage IIIB-IV EGFR-mutation-positive advanced NSCLC with previous disease control with first-line gefitinib and recent disease progression (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1). 
 BACKGROUND: Four large clinical trials have shown that concurrent administration of an epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI), such as gefitinib or erlotinib, with chemotherapy agents does not improve overall survival (OS) in unselected patients with advanced NSCLC. 
 OBJECTIVE: To analyze the efficacy and survival associated factors of gefitinib combined with cisplatin and gemcitabine for advanced NSCLC. 
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 57 patients with advanced NSCLC, who received platinum-based chemotherapy regimens for more than 1 cycle, were treated with gefitinib combined with cisplatin and gemcitabine until disease progression. 
CONCLUSIONS: Gefitinib combined with cisplatin andgemcitabine, is effective for patients with IIIb~IV NSCLC who received multiple cycles of chemotherapy. 
Gefitinib, a small-molecule epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI), has already been recommended as a first-line treatment in EGFR-mutant metastatic NSCLC. 
We report rare presentation of TEN involving adverse effects of AP and gefitinib combination treatment in a 42-year-old woman diagnosed with metastatic NSCLC harboring an EGFR mutation. 
Moreover, Pim-1 knockdown sensitized NSCLC cells to cisplatin and EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor, gefitinib. 
 The purpose of this study is to compare the efficacy and safety of Gefitinib versus VMP in combination with three-dimensional conformal radiotherapy (3D-CRT) for multiple brain metastases from NSCLC. 
A total of 73 NSCLC patients with brain metastases from January 2010 to August 2013 were randomly divided into Gefitinib group (37 patients) and VMP chemotherapy group (36 patients). 
Both oral Gefitinib and systemic VMP chemotherapy in combination with three-dimensional conformal radiotherapy (3D-CRT) could be used to treat brain metastases from NSCLC. 
All together, our finding implicated that Gefitinib is an effective method for patients with brain metastases from NSCLC. 
For exploring the mechanism of the failed combination therapy in lung cancer, in the present study, four therapy assessment groups, including a control group, a chemotherapy group [paclitaxel+cisplatin (TP)], a gefitinib monotherapy group (G) and a combination group[paclitaxel+cisplatin+gefitinib (TP+G)], were established in an A549 cell line and mouse xenotransplanted tumor models.By HPLC, we found that the gefitinib concentration was significantly higher in the combination group when compared to that in the G group in the NSCLC cell line, A549 (p<0.05). 
Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs), such as gefitinib, erlotinib or afatinib are the standard-of-care for patients with advanced NSCLC harbouring activating EGFR mutations. 
The aim of this study was to determine whether the administration of gefitinib, a tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI), intercalated with pemetrexed/platinum could improve the efficacy in chemotherapy-naïve patients with advanced non-squamous NSCLC without subsequent gefitinib maintenance therapy. 
Treatment-naïve patients with stage IIIB or IV NSCLC were randomly assigned to receive pemetrexed (500 mg/m (2) d1) and either cisplatin (75 mg/m (2) d1) or carboplatin (AUC = 5 d1) plus gefitinib (250 mg/d on days 3 to 16 of a 3-week cycle) (PC-G) or pemetrexed-platinum (PC) alone. 
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Using the tetrazolium colorimetric assay and classical isobole method, we investigated the combination effects of 6 gefitinib-chemotherapeutic doublets (gefitinib/cisplatin, gemcitabine, pemetrexed, paclitaxel, docetaxel, or vinorelbine) in a panel of 15 NSCLC cell lines. 
CONCLUSION: Gefitinib-treated EGFR-TKI-sensitive NSCLC cells showed a wide spectrum of chemo-refractoriness, suggesting that concomitantly combined EGFR-TKI-chemotherapy might not be a good treatment strategy for NSCLC harboring SEM. 
 Chemotherapy with platinum agents is the standard of care for NSCLC; however, novel molecular-targeted agents like gefitinib have been approved for advanced NSCLCs, including recurrent cases previously treated with platinum-based chemotherapy. 
 BACKGROUND: Gefitinib, a tyrosine kinase inhibitor, is an effective treatment in advanced NSCLC patients with an activating mutation in the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR). 
Therefore, this analysis evaluates the Quality Adjusted progression free survival of gefitinib versus three relevant doublet chemotherapies (gemcitabine/cisplatin (Gem/Cis); pemetrexed/cisplatin (Pem/Cis); paclitaxel/carboplatin (Pac/Carb)) in a Dutch health care setting in patients with EGFR M+ stage IIIB/IV NSCLC. 
CONCLUSIONS: In the Dutch health care setting, the previously established progression free survival benefit of first-line gefitinib in advanced NSCLC EGFR M+ patients in comparison to standard doublet chemotherapy is further supported by the Quality Adjusted PFS, which takes into account the additional health-related quality of life benefits of gefitinib over doublet chemotherapy. 
METHODS: East Asian, never-smoker, chemo-naïve patients with stage IIIB/IV NSCLC, performance status ≤1 and unknown EGFR mutation status were randomized 1:1 to receive 4 cycles of pemetrexed [500 mg/m(2)]+cisplatin [75 mg/m(2)] q3 weeks, followed by maintenance with either gefitinib [250 mg/d] (PC/G) or pemetrexed [500 mg/m(2)] q3 weeks and ≤2 optional cycles of cisplatin (PC/P). 
Randomised trials over the past 10-15 years have established pemetrexed (non-squamous histology), docetaxel, erlotinib and gefitinib as approved second-line agents in NSCLC without targetable driver mutations or rearrangements. 
Trials comparing these agents with other chemotherapy, evaluating the addition of an epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) to chemotherapy or the addition of another targeted agent to erlotinib or gefitinib have all failed to demonstrate an improvement in overall survival for patients with NSCLC. 
However, whether Ori can be used in gefitinib-resistant NSCLC cells remains unclear. 
Results demonstrated that this compound dose-dependently inhibited the proliferation, invasion, and migration of the gefitinib-resistant NSCLC cells in vitro. 
In addition, Ori upregulated protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) activity of gefitinib-resistant NSCLC cells. 
These findings indicated that Ori can inhibit the proliferation, invasion, and migration of gefitinib-resistant NSCLC cells by suppressing EGFR/ERK/MMP-12 and CIP2A/PP2A/Akt signaling pathways. 
Thus, Ori may be a novel effective candidate to treat gefitinib-resistant NSCLC. 
Among these 52 NSCLC patients, there were 14 patients treated with gefitinib. 
 PURPOSE: Docetaxel and gefitinib play key roles in the treatment of NSCLC, and their combination could be of interest. 
OBJECTIVES: To appraise the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of erlotinib [Tarceva(®), Roche (UK) Ltd] and gefitinib (IRESSA(®), AstraZeneca) compared with each other, docetaxel or best supportive care (BSC) for the treatment of NSCLC after disease progression following prior chemotherapy. 
Randomized phase II study of gefitinib versus erlotinib in patients with advanced NSCLC who failed previous chemotherapy. 
In EGFR unknown patients, nine trials (INTEREST, IRESSA as Second-line Therapy in Advanced NSCLC - KoreA, Li, Second-line Indication of Gefitinib in NSCLC, V-15-32, ISEL, DELTA, TITAN and BR.21) reported overall survival data and only one (BR.21) reported a statistically significant result favouring the use of erlotinib over BSC (HR 0.7, 95% CI 0.58 to 0.85). 
Drugs interfering with the tyrosine kinase domain of the EGFR (EGFR TKIs), such as erlotinib and gefitinib, have demonstrated efficacy in patients with advanced NSCLC irrespective of therapy line and particularly in patients harbouring activating mutations in the EGFR gene (EGFR(mut+)). 
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Patients with advanced NSCLC with a PS of 2 or 3 were enrolled into a multicenter randomized trial: arm A, gefitinib; arm B, gemcitabine; and arm C, docetaxel. 
The discovery of a number of lung cancer-molecular alterations contributes to uniquely targeted therapies with specific inhibitors for NSCLC such as erlotinib, gefitinib and crizotinib. 
V1801, an analog of gefitinib may overcome gefitinib resistance in patients with NSCLC. 
Our research aimed at exploring the cytotoxic interactions between gefitinib and docetaxel with different concentrations for NSCLC cell lines, and furthermore, the mechanisms underlying the cytotoxic synergism. 
In conclusion, the combination of docetaxel and gefitinib generated synergistic effects in EGFR-TKI-sensitive cells and antagonistic effects in EGFR-TKI-primary and acquired resistant cells, suggesting that EGFR-TKIs, combined with docetaxel, may be beneficial to NSCLC patients with EGFR mutations. 
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Using the tetrazolium colorimetric assay and classical isobole method, we investigated the combination effects of 6 gefitinib-chemotherapeutic doublets (gefitinib/cisplatin, gemcitabine, pemetrexed, paclitaxel, docetaxel, or vinorelbine) in a panel of 15 NSCLC cell lines. 
CONCLUSION: Gefitinib-treated EGFR-TKI-sensitive NSCLC cells showed a wide spectrum of chemo-refractoriness, suggesting that concomitantly combined EGFR-TKI-chemotherapy might not be a good treatment strategy for NSCLC harboring SEM. 
 Docetaxel, pemetrexed and epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors (gefitinib and erlotinib) are recommended second-line therapy for advanced NSCLC patients with disease progression. 
 BACKGROUND: NEJ002 study, comparing gefitinib with carboplatin (CBDCA) and paclitaxel (PTX; Taxol) as the first-line treatment for advanced NSCLC harboring an epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutation, previously reported superiority of gefitinib over CBDCA/PTX on progression-free survival (PFS). 
Considering the many benefits and the risk of missing an opportunity to use the most effective agent for EGFR-mutated NSCLC, the first-line gefitinib is strongly recommended. 
This review assessed QOL outcomes of approved, guideline-supported 2L chemotherapy with docetaxel, erlotinib, gefitinib, and pemetrexed in advanced NSCLC. 
METHODS: The combination effects of gefitinib with three antimicrotubule agents (AMTAs), paclitaxel, docetaxel or vinorelbine, or with gemcitabine were tested in 17 NSCLC cell lines using the tetrazolium colorimetric assay and classical isobole method. 
CONCLUSIONS: Combined gefitinib/AMTAs showed synergism in NSCLC cells harboring no sensitizing EGFR mutations. 
 BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) such as gefitinib and erlotinib show promising therapeutic effects in patients with advanced NSCLC. 
 AIM: To evaluate the cost utility and budget impact of second-line gefitinib for NSCLC from a Thai payer perspective. 
CONCLUSION:   Gefitinib is a dominant cost saving strategy compared with docetaxel for the second-line treatment of advanced NSCLC from the Thai payer perspective. 
Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitors, such as Gefitinib and Erlotinib, are effective clinical medicines for advanced NSCLC patients harboring EGFR-activating mutations. 
SKLB-178 potently inhibited cancer cell growth in both Gefitinib-sensitive and resistant NSCLC cells. 
CONCLUSIONS: Erlotinib seemed more effective than gefitinib in prolonging survival in leptomeningeal carcinomatosis from EGFR mutation-positive NSCLC and may be particularly beneficial in patients with EGFR exon 19 mutations, warranting further studies. 
 BACKGROUND: Gefitinib, erlotinib, and afatinib are tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) used for treatment of advanced epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutated NSCLC. 
We retrospectively reviewed 922 consecutive patients with EGFR-mutant NSCLC patients administered with gefitinib/erlotinib at Guangdong General Hospital. 
 PURPOSE: The BIM deletion polymorphism is associated with apoptosis resistance to epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs), such as gefitinib and erlotinib, in NSCLC harboring EGFR mutations. 
 BACKGROUND: Gefitinib, erlotinib and afatinib provide remarkable response rates and progression-free survival compared to platinum-based chemotherapy in patients with NSCLC harboring epidermal growth factor receptor-activating mutations, and are therefore standard first-line treatment in these patients. 
FINDINGS: Of the 1006 patients diagnosed with stage IIIb and IV NSCLC in the study period, 448 (44.5%) had EGFR-activating mutations and received first-line therapy with gefitinib (n = 304, 67.6%), erlotinib (n = 63, 14.3%), or afatinib (n = 81, 18.1%). 
INTERPRETATION: Afatinib and erlotinib provide significant benefits in progression-free survival compared to gefitinib in first-line treatment of patients with NSCLCs harboring EGFR-activating mutations. 
 The first- and second-generation epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors (1/2G EGFR-TKIs) gefitinib, erlotinib, and afatinib have all been approved as standard first-line treatments for advanced EGFR mutation-positive NSCLC. 
 BACKGROUND: Erlotinib and gefitinib are weak base drugs whose absorption and clinical efficacy may be impaired by concomitant gastric acid suppressive (AS) therapy, yet proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) and histamine-2 receptor antagonists (H2As) are widely indicated in NSCLC patients for the prevention and treatment of erlotinib-induced gastrointestinal injury and corticosteroid-associated gastric irritation. 
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A retrospective database analysis of 157 patients given erlotinib or gefitinib for EGFR-mutant advanced NSCLC from two institutions was conducted. 
The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutant NSCLCs frequently respond to the EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs) treatment, such as Gefitinib and Erlotinib, but the development of acquired resistance limits the utility. 
In this work, an in vitro study was designed using EGFR inhibitor (Gefitinib), IGF-1R inhibitor (NVP-AEW541), and miRNA mimics in two Gefitinib-resistant NSCLC cell lines, H460 and H1975. 
This review discusses the latest updates in molecular testing at progression and outlines treatment options for this difficult-to-treat population.IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE: Although the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs)-gefitinib, erlotinib, and afatinib-have changed the treatment paradigm for NSCLC among those with EGFR mutation-positive disease, most patients experience progression after approximately 12 months of treatment. 
 BACKGROUND: The objective of the study was to observe the efficacy and safety of pulsatile administration of high-dose gefitinib or erlotinib in patients with advanced NSCLC with secondary drug resistance to standard doses of tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) treatment. 
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We recruited 42 NSCLC patients from our hospital, between August 2014 and December 2015, who had experienced drug resistance after one year of conventional treatment with gefitinib or erlotinib. 
 Patients with advanced epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutant NSCLC are particularly sensitive to treatment with first- or second-generation EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors such as gefitinib, erlotinib and afatinib, which block the cell-signaling pathways that drive the growth of tumor cells. 
MEDLINE, PubMed, Cochrane, and Google Scholar databases were searched until October 21, 2015 using the following search terms: lung neoplasms/lung cancer/NSCLC/NSCLC, EGFR, gene amplification, copy number, erlotinib, gefitinib, tyrosine-kinase inhibitor/TKI, predictor. 
 PURPOSE: The emergence of EGFR-inhibitors such as gefitinib, erlotinib and osimertinib has provided novel treatment opportunities in EGFR-driven NSCLC. 
Currently, the first-generation EGFR/HER-TKIs gefitinib and erlotinib and second-generation EGFR/HER-TKI afatinib have been approved for use as the first-line treatment of metastatic NSCLC with actEGFRm. 
METHODS: This study was a pre-planned exploratory analysis of a randomized phase III trial conducted from 2009 to 2014 comparing erlotinib with gefitinib in advanced NSCLC harboring EGFR mutations in tumor (CTONG0901). 
METHODS: The analysis included fifty two NSCLC patients treated with EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs): erlotinib or gefitinib. 
Randomised trials over the past 10-15 years have established pemetrexed (non-squamous histology), docetaxel, erlotinib and gefitinib as approved second-line agents in NSCLC without targetable driver mutations or rearrangements. 
Trials comparing these agents with other chemotherapy, evaluating the addition of an epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) to chemotherapy or the addition of another targeted agent to erlotinib or gefitinib have all failed to demonstrate an improvement in overall survival for patients with NSCLC. 
The epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs), such as gefitinib or erlotinib, are one of the representatives of targeted therapy which have been widely used in first line, maintenance and 2nd/3rd line therapy among advanced NSCLC. 
In this study, we utilized Dichloroacetate (DCA), a widely regarded PDK inhibitor, together with Erlotinib and Gefitinib, two well-known EGFR inhibitors, and demonstrated that the applications of DCA in combination with either Erlotinib or Gefitinib significantly attenuated the viability of EGFR mutant NSCLC cells (NCI-H1975 and NCI-H1650) in a synergistic manner. 
One of the potential strategies for treating acquired resistance in NSCLC is the readministration of EGFR-TKIs, a strategy that has mainly been evaluated using gefitinib or erlotinib. 
CONCLUSIONS: Currently, EGFR TKIs (e.g.: erlotinib, gefitinib, osimertinib) and ALK inhibitors (crizotinib, ceritinib, alectinib) provided a new face for advanced NSCLC outcomes. 
We evaluated the efficacy of first-generation EGFR-tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs; erlotinib, gefitinib, and icotinib) in patients with NSCLC carrying insertions and T790M and S768I mutations in EGFR exon 20. 
 Afatinib, together with gefitinib and erlotinib, is approved for first-line treatment of advanced NSCLC with activating mutations of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR). 
Methods The study comprised a 3 + 3 dose-escalation part for LY2875358 monotherapy in patients with advanced malignancies (Part A) followed by an assessment of LY2875358 in combination with erlotinib or gefitinib in patients with NSCLC (Part B). 
 EGFR-targeted inhibitors (gefitinib and erlotinib) provided an effective strategy for the treatment of NSCLC. 
 BACKGROUND: Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs), such as gefitinib, erlotinib, and afatinib, have greatly improved treatment efficacy in NSCLC patients with drug-sensitive EGFR mutations. 
Importantly, we show here that the Src family inhibitor, dasatinib, dramatically inhibits cell adhesion-related response and greatly enhances the cell-killing effects of EGFR TKI (gefitinib for the PC9 cells; afatinib for the H1975 cells) in NSCLC cells, which would otherwise escape the TKI-induced apoptosis. 
Three different tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) are recommended as first-line treatment of EGFR mutation-positive NSCLC: gefitinib, erlotinib, and afatinib. 
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Erlotinib, gefitinib, and afatinib are all active agents in EGFR M+ NSCLC patients, and demonstrate an increased tumour response rate and prolonged progression-free survival compared to cytotoxic chemotherapy. 
Cytotoxic chemotherapy is less effective in EGFR M+ NSCLC than erlotinib, gefitinib, or afatinib and is associated with greater toxicity. 
EXPERT OPINION: Gefitinib is a well-tolerated treatment for advanced NSCLC. 
Hence, despite being the earliest EGFR TKI developed, gefitinib continues to be one of the first-line treatments for advanced EGFR-mutated NSCLC, especially when skin and gastrointestinal toxicity is a concern. 
CONCLUSION: Low activity of poziotinib was detected in patients with EGFR-mutant NSCLC who developed AR to gefitinib or erlotinib, potentially because of severe-toxicityimposed dose limitation. 
Here we report two cases of gefitinib- or erlotinib-pretreated NSCLCs with a T790M mutation-positive (as assessed on plasma through the therascreen EGFR test) disease and untreated, asymptomatic central nervous system metastases that responded to treatment with osimertinib. 
 Gefitinib and erlotinib target the ATP cleft in the tyrosine kinase EGFR, which is overexpressed in 40-80 percent of NSCLC and many other epithelial cancers. 
We previously established a new gefitinib-resistant NSCLC cell line, HCC827GR, which harbors the T790M mutation. 
These findings suggest that multilayered crosstalk between G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) and EGFR may play an important role in regulating downstream signaling molecules that are implicated in the development of gefitinib-resistant NSCLC. 
Our study indicates that AS treatment may not compromise TKI efficacy (gefitinib or erlotinib) in NSCLC patients with mutated EGFR. 
Nowadays, we dispose of three different EGFR TKIs (afatinib, erlotinib and gefitinib) approved for the treatment for first-line treatment of patients di NSCLC carrying EGFR, that was compared only by indirect analysis, producing data not always clear and convincing. 
 BACKGROUND: Gefitinib and/or erlotinib-induced hepatotoxicity sometimes lead to treatment failure in EGFR mutation-positive patients with NSCLC, even though the therapeutic effect is evident. 
CASES: Here, we report three postoperative NSCLC patients with recurrences who experienced severe hepatotoxicity while receiving gefitinib and/or erlotinib treatment but could be safely switched to afatinib treatment. 
 Several clinical trials indicate that concurrent administration of tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs, such as gefitinib or erlotinib) with chemotherapy agents fails to improve overall survival in advanced NSCLC patients. 
 BACKGROUND: To comprehensively assess the efficacy and safety of whole-brain radiotherapy (WBRT) combined with gefitinib/erlotinib for treatment of brain metastases (BM) from NSCLC. 
Studies on randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and case-control trials comparing WBRT combined with gefitinib/erlotinib versus WBRT alone for BM from NSCLC were included. 
CONCLUSIONS: WBRT plus gefitinib/erlotinib was superior to WBRT alone and well tolerated in patients with BM from NSCLC. 
Approval of tyrosine kinase inhibitors such as erlotinib, gefitinib, and lapatinib for the treatment of NSCLC led to tremendous development of novel EGFR inhibitors in the last decade. 
We recruited 226 Chinese advanced NSCLC patients who received TKIs erlotinib, gefitinib and icotinib hydrochloride and systematically studied the genetic factors associated with therapeutic responses and ADRs. 
PATIENTS AND METHODS: From 2008 to 2011, 130 consecutive patients with advanced NSCLC harboring EGFR mutations were treated with either erlotinib or gefitinib at our institution. 
CONCLUSION: Concurrent use of AS did not affect the efficacy or toxicity of erlotinib and gefitinib in patients with advanced NSCLC harboring EGFR mutations. 
 Acquired resistance to epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs), such as gefitinib and erlotinib, is a critical issue for the treatment of EGFR mutant-positive NSCLC. 
 Afatinib is a second-generation epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) inhibitor that has been shown to be effective against EGFR-mutated NSCLC resistant to conventional EGFR inhibitors such as gefitinib and erlotinib. 
MATERIAL AND METHODS: We retrospectively analyzed all NSCLC patients with EGFR-TKI (gefitinib or erlotinib) treatment at our institution between 2011 and 2013 who progressed after at least stable disease on erlotinib or gefitinib for more than 6 months. 
In elderly patients with advanced epidermal growth factor receptor mutation-positive NSCLC, erlotinib and gefitinib appear to repeat the same favorable performance as that documented on a larger scale in the overall population of patients with activating mutations. 
 NSCLC patients with activating epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations initially respond well to the EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) erlotinib and gefitinib. 
 NSCLC with echinoderm microtubule-associated protein-like 4-anaplastic lymphoma kinase (EML4-ALK) translocation is resistant to epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs), including gefitinib and erlotinib, but responds to the ALK-TKI crizotinib. 
 RATIONALE AND OBJECTIVES: The aims of this study were to investigate the association between 8-week tumor volume decrease and survival in an independent cohort of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)-mutant advanced NSCLC patients treated with first-line erlotinib or gefitinib, and to assess the rate of their volumetric tumor growth after the volume nadir. 
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In patients with advanced NSCLC harboring sensitizing EGFR mutations treated with first-line erlotinib or gefitinib, computed tomography (CT) tumor volumes of dominant lung lesions were analyzed for (1) the association with survival, and (2) the volumetric tumor growth rate after the volume nadir. 
CONCLUSIONS: The 8-week tumor volume decrease was validated as a marker for longer survival in the independent cohort of EGFR-mutant NSCLC patients treated with first-line erlotinib or gefitinib. 
Three EGFR inhibitors (erlotinib, gefitinib and afatinib) received a European marketing authorization for up to first line treatment of EGFR mutated NSCLC. 
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We retrospectively analyzed 151 patients who had NSCLC harboring EGFR mutations and had received either gefitinib or erlotinib as first-line treatment between 2005 and 2014. 
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Seven NSCLC patients harboring activating EGFR mutations who had developed LM during or after therapy with gefitinib, an EGFR TKI, were retrospectively analyzed. 
 PURPOSE: In this phase Ib/II study, we aimed to assess the safety and efficacy of afatinib plus nimotuzumab (N) in advanced NSCLC patients with acquired resistance to gefitinib or erlotinib. 
CONCLUSIONS: Combination treatment of afatinib and nimotuzumab demonstrated an acceptable safety profile and encouraging antitumor activity in advanced NSCLC patients with acquired resistance to gefitinib or erlotinib. 
 BACKGROUND: Afatinib has demonstrated clinical benefit in patients with NSCLC progressing after treatment with erlotinib/gefitinib. 
 Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations in NSCLC patients are associated with sensitivity to small molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) such as erlotinib, gefitinib, and afatinib. 
METHODS: From 2008 to 2012, 160 consecutive patients with advanced NSCLC harboring an EGFR mutation were treated with EGFR-TKIs (erlotinib or gefitinib). 
Although afatinib has been shown to be effective in the treatment for erlotinib-refractory and/or gefitinib-refractory central nervous system metastases from NSCLC, little is known about the efficacy of erlotinib for afatinib-refractory central nervous system metastases. 
 WHAT IS KNOWN AND OBJECTIVE: Epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs) such as erlotinib or gefitinib are indicated for the treatment of NSCLC. 
We performed a systematic review and meta-analysis to summarize the evidence regarding the association of smoking status with overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS) in patients with NSCLC receiving EGFR-TKI therapy with erlotinib or gefitinib. 
Eligible studies included those evaluating the association of smoking status with OS and PFS in patients with NSCLC receiving erlotinib or gefitinib. 
WHAT IS NEW AND CONCLUSION: Among patients with NSCLC receiving EGFR-TKI therapy with erlotinib or gefitinib, never smokers appear to show longer OS and PFS as compared to former or current smokers. 
The EGFR-TKIs gefitinib, erlotinib, and afatinib have been approved for the treatment of advanced NSCLC, and sensitivity to these drugs has been shown to be associated with the presence of EGFR mutations. 
 This meta-analysis has been conducted to determine the risk of elevated transaminases associated with the use of erlotinib, gefitinib and afatinib in patients with NSCLC. 
 BACKGROUND/AIMS: The purpose of this study was to identify predictive factors for erlotinib treatment in NSCLC patients following gefitinib failure. 
METHODS: Forty-five patients with NSCLC who were treated with erlotinib following gefitinib failure at Seoul National University Hospital between August 2005 and November 2011 were enrolled. 
The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) inhibitors, gefitinib, erlotinib and afatinib; the anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) inhibitor, crizotinib; and the anti-vascular endothelial growth factor receptor monoclonal antibody, bevacizumab, are already providing improved survival for patients with NSCLC. 
Results from another large-scale randomized trial (ARCHER 1050) comparing dacomitinib to gefitinib as first-line treatment of advanced treatment-naïve EGFR-mutant NSCLC patients will soon be available and will serve as the lynchpin trial for the potential approval of dacomitinib in NSCLC. 
Given the rapid development of third-generation EGFR TKIs and the approval of gefitinib, erlotinib, and afatinib as first-line treatment of EGFR-mutant NSCLC patients, the future role of dacomitinib in the treatment of NSCLC seems to be limited. 
gefitinib, erlotinib, afatinib) in patients with NSCLC harboring EGFR mutations reach 60-80%, with a complete response rate as high as 40%. 
We report of an elderly patient with NSCLC who responded to S-1 monotherapy following gefitinib therapy. 
Gefitinib following S-1 monotherapy resulted in long-term tumor size control for a total of 27 months in an elderly patient with advanced NSCLC.S -1 monotherapy might be one of the options for salvage therapy after gefitinib treatment becomes ineffective. 
We experienced two cases of NSCLC patients who developed erlotinib-induced eyelid erosion and were then successfully treated with gefitinib, without recurrence of toxicity or disease progression. 
 NSCLC patients whose tumors have an EGFR-activating mutation develop acquired resistance after a median of 9-11 months from the beginning of treatment with erlotinib, gefitinib and afatinib. 
 In NSCLC patients, the activation of alternative pathways contributes to the limited efficacy of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) gefitinib and erlotinib. 
The present study examines a panel of EGFR wild-type, K-Ras mutated, NSCLC lines, which were all intrinsically resistant to EGFR-TKIs, and demonstrates that the histone deacetylase inhibitor vorinostat can improve the therapeutic efficacy of gefitinib or erlotinib, inducing strong synergistic antiproliferative and pro-apoptotic effects that are paralleled by reactive oxygen species accumulation and by increased DNA damage. 
RESULTS: Between January 2010 and June 2014, a total of 24 EGFR-mutant NSCLC patients who had been previously treated with EGFR-TKIs (gefitinib, erlotinib, and/or afatinib) received EGFR-TKI rechallenge with bevacizumab. 
 Resistance to the EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) gefitinib and erlotinib, often related to Ras or secondary EGFR mutations, is a relevant clinical issue in NSCLC. 
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Multi-SNP analyses were performed in 60 patients with EGFR-mutated NSCLC using blood samples obtained prior to starting treatment with gefitinib. 
The reversible epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) gefitinib and erlotinib had undergone turbulent clinical development until it was discovered that these agents have preferential activity in patients with NSCLC harboring activating EGFR mutations. 
After ten years from the individuation of activating mutations in the tyrosine kinase domain of the EGFR in NSCLC patients responding to the EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) Gefitinib, several progresses have been done and first line treatment with EGFR TKIs is a firmly established option in advanced EGFR-mutated NSCLC patients. 
The aim of this paper is to provide a comprehensive review of the major progresses reported so far in the EGFR inhibition in this molecularly-selected subgroup of NSCLC patients, from the early successes with first generation EGFR TKIs, Erlotinib and Gefitinib, to the novel irreversible and mutant-selective inhibitors and ultimately the emerging challenges that we, in the next future, are called to deal with. 
 Activating EGFR mutations discovery and efficacy of 1st generation tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKI), such as erlotinib or gefitinib, inaugurated the beginning of personalized medicine in the treatment of EGFR-mutated NSCLC. 
 Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) such as gefitinib, erlotinib, and afatinib are standard-of-care for first-line treatment of EGFR-mutant advanced NSCLC. 
 BACKGROUND: Low-dose erlotinib may be as effective as gefitinib or erlotinib at full dose in NSCLC patients with activating mutations of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) gene. 
 OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the efficacy of whole brain radiotherapy (WBRT) or/and stereotactic radiotherapy (SRT) concomitant with first-generation epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKI), like erlotinib and gefitinib, in the treatment of brain metastases from NSCLC. 
OBJECTIVES: To appraise the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of erlotinib [Tarceva(®), Roche (UK) Ltd] and gefitinib (IRESSA(®), AstraZeneca) compared with each other, docetaxel or best supportive care (BSC) for the treatment of NSCLC after disease progression following prior chemotherapy. 
Randomized phase II study of gefitinib versus erlotinib in patients with advanced NSCLC who failed previous chemotherapy. 
In EGFR unknown patients, nine trials (INTEREST, IRESSA as Second-line Therapy in Advanced NSCLC - KoreA, Li, Second-line Indication of Gefitinib in NSCLC, V-15-32, ISEL, DELTA, TITAN and BR.21) reported overall survival data and only one (BR.21) reported a statistically significant result favouring the use of erlotinib over BSC (HR 0.7, 95% CI 0.58 to 0.85). 
 First-generation, reversible epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs), erlotinib and gefitinib, represented an important addition to the treatment armamentarium for NSCLC patients with activating EGFR mutations. 
Afatinib has also demonstrated clinical activity in NSCLC patients who had progressed on erlotinib/gefitinib, particularly when combined with cetuximab, and offers 'treatment beyond progression' benefit when combined with paclitaxel versus chemotherapy alone. 
 RATIONALE, AIMS AND OBJECTIVES: Molecular targeted drugs (MTD), gefitinib and erlotinib, have been proven to provide clinical benefits to advanced stage NSCLC patients. 
The epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs) gefitinib and erlotinib have been tested in patients with NSCLC and brain metastasis. 
Drugs interfering with the tyrosine kinase domain of the EGFR (EGFR TKIs), such as erlotinib and gefitinib, have demonstrated efficacy in patients with advanced NSCLC irrespective of therapy line and particularly in patients harbouring activating mutations in the EGFR gene (EGFR(mut+)). 
 NSCLC patients with an epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutation have benefited from treatment of reversible EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) such as gefitinib and erlotinib. 
 Multiple mutations in the EGFR gene are a major cause for the failure of Erlotinib and Gefitinib in the treatment of patients harboring NSCLC who initially responded to this therapy. 
In several phase III studies, patients with NSCLC EGFR Mut+ achieved a significantly better progression-free survival when treated with a first- (gefitinib, erlotinib) or second-generation (afatinib) EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) compared with standard chemotherapy. 
 First-generation epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR TKIs), gefitinib and erlotinib, produce reliable responses and survival benefits in selected patients with advanced NSCLC. 
 All patients with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutant advanced NSCLC treated with an EGFR-tyrosine kinase inhibitor (EGFR-TKI) such as gefitinib, erlotinib or afatinib will progress after a median of 9-12 months. 
 BACKGROUND: Four large clinical trials have shown that concurrent administration of an epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI), such as gefitinib or erlotinib, with chemotherapy agents does not improve overall survival (OS) in unselected patients with advanced NSCLC. 
Notably, heregulin was upregulated in tissue samples from an NSCLC patient who had an activating EGFR mutation but was resistant to the TKI gefitinib. 
Activating mutations in exons 19 or 21 of EGFR in NSCLC are associated with increased sensitivity to EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) such as gefitinib and erlotinib. 
Gefitinib was stopped and the patient died 1 month later of progressive NSCLC. 
Patients with NSCLC who harbor an activating EGFR mutation show a more favorable response to treatment with an EGFR inhibitor, such as gefitinib, erlotinib, or afatinib, than to chemotherapy. 
 The presence of activating gene mutations in the epidermal growth factor receptor of NSCLC patients is predictive (improved progression-free survival and improved response rate) when treated with small molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitors such as gefitinib, erlotinib and afatinib. 
 BACKGROUND: Therapeutic approach by treatment with epidermal growth factor receptor-tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs) like gefitinib or erlotinib to NSCLC patients has been limited due to emergence of acquired drug resistance. 
METHODS: The anticancer effect of USP8 inhibitor was determined by testing anchorage-dependent or independent growth of gefitinib-sensitive or resistant NSCLCs. 
RESULTS: Inhibition of USP8 induced overall degradation of oncogenic receptor tyrosine kinases including EGFR and Met, leading to a suppression of anchorage-dependent or independent cell growth of gefitinib-sensitive or resistant NSCLCs. 
CONCLUSIONS: Inhibition of USP8 could be an effective strategy for overcoming gefitinib resistance in NSCLCs. 
The clinical effectiveness of EGFR targeted therapies, including small molecules directed against the kinase domain such as gefitinib, erlotinib and afatinib, have been proven successful in treating NSCLC patients with tumors harboring EGFR kinase domain mutations. 
 OBJECTIVE: To compare the efficacy of the erlotinib versus gefitinib in the first-line treatment of patients with advanced EGFR mutation-positive NSCLC. 
METHODS: Fifty patients with untreated advanced EGFR mutation- positive NSCLC were randomly divided into gefitinib group (n=27) and erlotinib group (n=23). 
CONCLUSION: There is no significant differences between gefitinib and erlotinib in the first-line treatment of patients with advanced EGFR mutation-positive NSCLC. 
Gefitinib has been investigated in combination with radiotherapy for unresectable stage III NSCLC, but results in maintenance treatment after chemoradiotherapy were not encouraging. 
 We performed a meta-analysis of fatal pulmonary events associated with erlotinib, gefitinib or afatinib in patients with NSCLC. 
Our meta-analysis has demonstrated that erlotinib, gefitinib and afatinib are associated with an increased risk of high-grade interstitial lung disease in patients with NSCLC. 
We analyzed data from 21 NSCLC patients aged ≥ 80 years who were administered gefitinib and/or erlotinib between January, 2009 and December, 2014. 
The objective of this study was to compare the efficacy and toxicity of erlotinib, gefitinib, and afatinib in NSCLC. 
CONCLUSION: Gefitinib has similar activity and toxicity compared with erlotinib and offers a valuable alternative to patients with NSCLC. 
One of the best known examples of personalized therapy is the use of tyrosine kinase inhibitors, such as gefitinib and erlotinib, for the successful treatment of NSCLC patients selected based on the specific EGFR mutations. 
 OBJECTIVES: Three epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) - afatinib, erlotinib, and gefitinib - are available for the treatment of patients with EGFR mutation-positive NSCLC. 
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We performed a pooled analysis of severe AEs according to the type of EGFR-TKI administered with the use of data extracted from prospective clinical trials that evaluated the clinical efficacy of gefitinib, erlotinib, or afatinib in NSCLC patients with EGFR mutations. 
We analysed clinical data of 67 patients with locally advanced (IIIB) or metastatic stage (IV) NSCLC harbouring Kirsten rat sarcoma viral oncogene (KRAS) mutation treated with erlotinib or gefitinib. 
METHODS: Eight patients diagnosed with NSCLC (three men and five women with an average age of 69.3 years) who were initiated on treatment with EGFR inhibitors (either gefitinib [Iressa(®)] or erlotinib [Tarceva(®)]) were enrolled. 
 Mutations in the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) gene are associated with a favorable clinical response to the EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors gefitinib and erlotinib in NSCLC. 
The FDA-approved small-molecule inhibitors of EGFR, gefitinib (Iressa) and erlotinib (Tarceva), are clinically effective in a subset of patients with NSCLC whose tumors harbor activating mutations within the kinase domain of EGFR. 
Nowadays, the epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors erlotinib and gefitinib, and the anaplastic lymphoma kinase inhibitor crizotinib, are targeted agents approved for treatment of NSCLC. 
Epidermal growth factor receptor-tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs), such as gefitinib and erlotinib, have demonstrated marked clinical activity against NSCLC harboring activating epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations. 
We report data from a phase I/II, multicenter, open-label study of Korean patients with refractory KRAS wild-type adenocarcinoma NSCLC (defined as patients with evidence of disease progression during or within 6 months of treatment with chemotherapy and gefitinib or erlotinib). 
FINDINGS: New targeted therapies for molecularly selected NSCLC are changing the natural history of the disease, with results superior to standard chemotherapy as demonstrated in large phase III studies with first generation EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) erlotinib and gefitinib. 
 BACKGROUND: EGFR mutation might be a predictive factor for applying EGFR-tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs, including gefitinib, erlotinib and afatinib) in NSCLC (NSCLS) patients. 
 Erlotinib and gefitinib are among the most widely researched, used and available molecularly targeted therapies for treatment of advanced NSCLC. 
In the past decade, there have been reports on clinical benefit from use of erlotinib after gefitinib failure in NSCLC patients. 
 BACKGROUND: Patients with EGFR-mutant NSCLC generally have a progression-free survival of 9-13 months while being treated with the EGFR tyrosine-kinase inhibitors gefitinib or erlotinib. 
 PURPOSE: To evaluate the efficacy and safety of alternating gefitinib and erlotinib, tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), with chemotherapy in NSCLC patients with acquired TKI resistance. 
It has been suggested that EML4-ALK fusion is associated with the resistance in NSCLCs to epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR TKIs), such as gefitinib and erlotinib. 
 The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) inhibitors gefitinib and erlotinib are effective in the treatment of advanced NSCLC, but the median survival of patients is short. 
Here, we describe 2 patients with NSCLC receiving conventional chemotherapy and alternative treatment with gefitinib or erlotinib as second-line therapy. 
Gefitinib, erlotinib, and conventional chemotherapy can be combined for satisfactory therapy for NSCLC. 
Other studies indicated that afatinib may offer advantages over standard chemotherapy for NSCLC in terms of enhanced symptom control and quality of life and is modestly effective in cases involving EGFRT790M-related acquired resistance to the TKIs erlotinib and gefitinib. 
 First-generation epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs), including gefitinib and erlotinib, have proven to be highly effective agents for advanced NSCLC in patients harboring an activating EGFR mutation such as the exon 19 deletion mutation and L858R. 
The aforementioned EGFR mutations are stout predictors of response and augmentation of progression-free survival when gefitinib, erlotinib, and afatinib are used for patients with advanced NSCLC. 
Here we show miR-200c overexpression was correlated with the epithelial phenotype and sensitivity to gefitinib in EGFR wild-type NSCLC cell lines. 
NSCLC patients at advanced stage (N=150) who received EGFR-TKIs (gefitinib or erlotinib) as second- or third-line therapy from September 2008 to December 2012 were included in the study. 
 The availability of antineoplastic monoclonal antibodies, small molecules and newer cytotoxics such as pemetrexed, the EGFR-tyrosine kinase inhibitors erlotinib, gefitinib, afatinib as well as the anti-angiogenic bevacizumab and the ALK-inhibitor crizotinib has recently changes the treatment algorithm of advanced NSCLC. 
However, it's still too early to celebrate since the first-generation EGFR-TKIs such as gefitinib and erlotinib have only achieved limited clinical benefits and acquired resistance to this kind of drugs occurred inevitably in almost all the NSCLC patients. 
The association of CFE, smoking history, occupational hazard exposure, tumor pathological type, EGFR mutation status, environmental exposure, living environment, and performance status with EGFR-TKI efficacy was determined in metastatic NSCLC patients who were treated with EGFR-TKIs (gefitinib or erlotinib). 
In addition, compound 1 potentiated the activity of erlotinib and gefitinib in epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor (EGFR TKI)-resistant NSCLC cells. 
The aforementioned EGFR mutations are stout predictors of response and augmentation of progression-free survival when gefitinib, erlotinib, and afatinib are used for patients with advanced NSCLC. 
Gefitinib and erlotinib, two reversible EGFR receptor tyrosine kinases inhibitors (TKIs), have been approved for the treatment of patients with metastatic NSCLC. 
 AIM: To evaluate the tolerability and efficacy of erlotinib treatment in advanced NSCLC patients who had previously experienced severe hepatotoxicity after gefitinib treatment. 
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Twenty-five NSCLC patients with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutation were initially treated with gefitinib (250 mg/day). 
CONCLUSION: Erlotinib treatment was efficient and well-tolerated in NSCLC patients with EGFR mutation, despite their severe hepatotoxicity with prior gefitinib treatment. 
PATIENTS AND METHODS: In a total of 163 patients with advanced-stage (IIIB or IV) NSCLC treated with EGFR-TKIs (erlotinib or gefitinib), pre-treatment levels of NSE and TK were measured. 
 With the successful use of gefitinib and erlotinib in clinic, some potent EGFR tyrosine kinase receptor inhibitors have gained widespread concern in the treatment of ovarian or NSCLC. 
 Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs), such as gefitinib and erlotinib, are known to play a significant role in EGFR mutation-positive NSCLC. 
When an EGFR mutation is found, gefitinib and erlotinib have been shown to have significant roles in the treatment of untreated advanced NSCLC. 
This study reports an EGFR mutation in NSCLC treated with gefitinib and is notable due to the patient's marked improvement following a shorter than average duration of treatment with gefitinib. 
 Gefitinib, an epidermal growth factor tyrosine kinase inhibitor (EGFR-TKI), has been approved in Japan for the treatment of patients with advanced NSCLC based on Phase II clinical trials since 2002. 
In 2004, activating mutations in the EGFR gene were discovered to be a predictive biomarker for EGFR-TKI treatment, and gefitinib, which is not effective for patients with EGFR wild-type NSCLC, has since been used only in patients with EGFR-mutated NSCLC. 
Similar to gefitinib, erlotinib is also effective for EGFR-mutated NSCLC and has been used as an initial treatment for patients with advanced EGFR-mutated NSCLC. 
The results of this updated pooled analysis suggest a substantial clear PFS benefit of treating patients with EGFR mutation-positive NSCLC with erlotinib or gefitinib compared with chemotherapy. 
 Small molecule inhibitors of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase activity, such as erlotinib and gefitinib, revolutionized therapy for NSCLC patients whose tumors harbor activating EGFR mutations. 
However, many unanswered questions about the optimal use of TKIs in lung cancer remain; in particular, an open question is which of the currently available TKIs (gefitinib, erlotinib and afatinib) might be the best choice in untreated NSCLC patients. 
MATERIALS AND METHODS: For the 2010-2013 period, the authors evaluated 158 patients diagnosed with advanced or metastatic NSCLC treated in first-, second-, or third-line with the EGFR-TKIs afatinib, erlotinib, or gefitinib. 
Two reversible EGFR TKIs (gefitinib, erlotinib) and the irreversible ErbB family blocker afatinib are currently approved for treatment of EGFR mutation-positive NSCLC, but no head-to-head trials have been reported to date. 
Gefitinib and erlotinib are first-generation EGFR-tyrosine kinase inhibitors(EGFR-TKIs)that play a key role in activating EGFR-mutated NSCLC. 
 The majority of NSCLC patients harbor EGFR-activating mutations that can be therapeutically targeted by EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR-TKI), such as erlotinib and gefitinib. 
Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs), such as gefitinib, erlotinib or afatinib are the standard-of-care for patients with advanced NSCLC harbouring activating EGFR mutations. 
Somatic TKI-sensitizing EGFR mutations (such as exon 19 deletions and L858R substitutions) are the most robust predictive biomarker for symptom improvement, radiographic response, and increment in progression-free survival (PFS) when EGFR TKIs (gefitinib, erlotinib, and afatinib) are used for patients with advanced NSCLC. 
 Publisher: 背景与目的 分子靶向治疗是肺癌个体化治疗的方向，目前已有学者建立靶向治疗预测模型，为临床个体化治疗提供更多的指导。本研究探讨血清肺表面活性物质相关蛋白（pulmonary surfactant-associated protein D, SP-D）、转化生长因子-α（transforming growthfactor α, TGF-α）、基质金属蛋白-9（matrix metalloproteinase 9, MMP-9）、组织多肽特异性抗原（tissue polypeptide specific antigen, TPS）、肺腺癌相关抗原（Krebs von den Lungen-6, KL-6）与晚期复治非小细胞肺癌（NSCLC, NSCLC）治疗疗效及生存的关系，并构建生存预测模型。方法 采用酶联免疫吸附法（enzyme-linked immuno sorbent assay, ELISA）检测114例晚期复治NSCLC患者治疗前外周血清中SP-D、TGF-α、MMP-9、TPS、KL-6含量，结合临床因素分析与厄洛替尼治疗疗效的关系，采 用Kaplan-Meier生存曲线、Cox多因素生存分析模型进行单因素和多因素分析，并构建生存预测模型。结果 114例患者厄洛替尼治疗总有效率为22.8%，稳定率为72.8%，中位无疾病进展时间（progression-free survival, PFS）为5.13个月，1年生存率为69.3%。SP-D>110 ng/mL组的有效率及稳定率均高于≤110 ng/mL组（P=0.011, P=0.017），MMP-9≤535 ng/mL的稳定率高于>535 ng/mL组（P=0.009）。TPS <80 U/L组的稳定率要高于≥80 U/L组（P=0.002）。SP-D>110 ng/mL组的mPFS长于≤110 ng/mL组（5.95个月 vs 3.25个月，P=0.009），MMP-9≤535 ng/mL的mPFS要长于>535 ng/mL组（5.83个月 vs 3.47个月，P=0.046），KL-6中<500 U/mL组要优于≥500 U/mL组（6.03个月 vs 3.40个月，P=0.040），TPS<80 U/L组的mPFS要长于≥80 U/L组（6.15个月 vs 2.42个月，P=0.014）。多因素分析显示吸烟史、EGFR基因野生型、末次化疗疗效进展、厄洛替尼治疗期间无皮疹、LDH升高和TPS≥80 U/L是PFS不佳的独立影响因素。通过建立预后预测模型，根据患者的预后指数可分成4组：低危组、中低危组、中危组和高危组，中位PFS分别是9.12个月、6.88个月 、3.52个月和0.93个月，组间差异具有统计学意义（P<0.001）。结论 血清肿瘤标志物TPS水平联合患者临床特征建立预测厄洛替尼治疗晚期复治NSCLC生存模型，在临床上有一定的指导意义。 DOI: 10.3779/j.issn.1009-3419.2014.05.05 PMID: 24854556 [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]  BACKGROUND: The combination of radiotherapy and epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) such as erlotinib and gefitinib in patients with advanced or metastatic NSCLC has not been widely investigated. 
The discovery of a number of lung cancer-molecular alterations contributes to uniquely targeted therapies with specific inhibitors for NSCLC such as erlotinib, gefitinib and crizotinib. 
V1801, an analog of gefitinib may overcome gefitinib resistance in patients with NSCLC. 
 Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) have been extensively investigated in previously treated advanced NSCLC, but what it is still unclear is the efficacy of (EFGR-TKIs: gefitinib or erlotinib) monotherapy in previously treated NSCLC. 
In December 2013, we performed a search in the PubMed, EMBASE, Cochrane library databases and Web of Science for randomized trials exploring the role of gefitinib or erlotinib in advanced NSCLC. 
 The first targeted agents approved for NSCLC treatment, the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) gefitinib and erlotinib, have an impressive activity in the presence of activating mutations of the EGFR gene. 
It is increasingly clear that there are molecularly distinct subtypes of various common cancers, with different therapeutic approaches required for each subtype, for example, the use of the monoclonal antibodies (trastuzumab and cetuximab) in HER2-positive breast cancer and wild-type KRAS colorectal cancer; tyrosine kinase inhibitors (imatinib, gefitinib, erlotinib and crizotinib) in chronic myeloid leukaemia, gastrointestinal stromal tumours and NSCLC and intracellular agents (vemurafenib and olaparib) in metastatic malignant melanoma and ovarian, breast and prostate cancer. 
 INTRODUCTION: Tyrosine kinase inhibitors gefitinib, erlotinib, and afatinib have been compared with chemotherapy as first-line therapies for patients with advanced NSCLC harboring epidermal growth factor receptor-activating mutations. 
RESULTS: Literature search yielded eight randomized phase 3 clinical trials comparing gefitinib, erlotinib, or afatinib with chemotherapy as first-line therapy in patients with advanced NSCLC during the last 5 years. 
To clarify the role of EMT phenotype as a predictive marker for EGFR-TKI, we performed a retrospective study in 202 stage IV or recurrent NSCLC patients receiving gefitinib or erlotinib therapy from June 2008 to September 2012 in our institute. 
 Gefitinib anderlotinib, which are epidermal growth factor receptor(EGFR)tyrosine kinase inhibitors(TKIs), have been usedfor the treatment of inoperable andrecurrent NSCLCpatients. 
We compared the clinical outcomes in gefitinib- and erlotinib-treated patients harboring EGFR mutations who had recurrent or metastatic NSCLC. 
METHODS: A total of 375 patients with recurrent or metastatic stage IIIB/IV NSCLC, who had either exon 19 deletion or the L858R mutation in exon 21, and had received either gefitinib (n = 228) or erlotinib (n = 147), were included in the study. 
CONCLUSION: In NSCLC patients harboring EGFR mutation, treatment with gefitinib and erlotinib resulted in similar effectiveness. 
 INTRODUCTION: Afatinib prolongs progression-free survival (PFS) in patients with NSCLC who were previously sensitive to erlotinib or gefitinib. 
 BACKGROUND: Gefitinib and erlotinib are used to treat advanced NSCLC. 
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Between January 2008 and September 2009, we enrolled 50 patients with advanced NSCLC who had received one or more chemotherapy regimens, including gefitinib monotherapy to which they had partial responses (PR) or stable disease (SD). 
 The identification of activating EGFR gene mutations and the availability of effective target therapies such as gefitinib and erlotinib have radically changed the therapeutic approach and prognosis for patients with advanced EGFR-mutated NSCLC. 
METHODS: A total of 148 patients who had metastatic or recurrent NSCLC with activating EGFR mutation treated with either erlotinib or gefitinib as a first-line (n = 10) and a second-line or more treatment (n = 138) were retrospectively reviewed. 
 Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) somatic mutations are found in the majority of NSCLCs (NSCLCs) and patients with NSCLC who harbor EGFR mutations have been shown to exhibit increased sensitivity to the small-molecule EGFR-tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) gefitinib and erlotinib. 
Afatinib showed some activity in NSCLC with acquired resistance to EGFR TKIs, although, currently, its efficacy after the failure of erlotinib or gefitinib has not been clearly stated. 
 Acquired resistance of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) has been developed as an important clinical problem though EGFR-TKI such as gefitinib, erlotinib and afatinib [1,2] has achieved 8-14 months of progression free survival in advanced NSCLC patient with EGFR mutation. 
Inhibition of EGFR by tyrosine kinase inhibitors such as gefitinib and erlotinib has provided a new hope for the cure of NSCLC patients. 
However, acquired resistance to gefitinib and erlotinib via EGFR-mutant NSCLC has occurred through various molecular mechanisms such as T790M secondary mutation, MET amplification, hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) overexpression, PTEN downregulation, epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), and other mechanisms. 
 Although NSCLC tumors with activating mutations in the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) are highly responsive to EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) including gefitinib and erlotinib, development of acquired resistance is almost inevitable. 
We demonstrated that addition of simvastatin to gefitinib enhanced caspase-dependent apoptosis in T790M mutant NSCLC cells. 
To determine the role of survivin in simvastatin-induced apoptosis of gefitinib-resistant NSCLC, we showed that the proportion of apoptotic cells following treatment with survivin siRNA and the gefitinib-simvastatin combination was greater than the theoretical additive effects, whereas survivin up-regulation could confer protection against gefitinib and simvastatin-induced apoptosis. 
EGFR-tyrosine kinase (TK) inhibitors such as gefitinib and erlotinib are widely used in the treatment of NSCLC. 
Currently, five molecular targeted agents were approved for treatment of advanced NSCLC: Gefitinib, erlotinib and afatinib for positive EGFR mutation, crizotinib for positive echinoderm microtubule-associated protein-like 4 (EML4)-ALK translocation and bevacizumab. 
 BACKGROUND: Several EGFR-tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs) including erlotinib, gefitinib, afatinib and icotinib are currently available as treatment for patients with advanced NSCLC who harbor EGFR mutations. 
Small-molecule inhibitors of the EGF receptor's tyrosine kinase domain (TKIs), including gefitinib and erlotinib, have been widely used for treating NSCLC. 
The upregulation of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) due to mutations has been observed in a number of cancers, and tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs), such as gefitinib and erlotinib, which specifically target EGFR signaling, have been used to treat NSCLC patients. 
We studied a broad subset of exon 20 insertion mutations, comparing in vitro TKI sensitivity with responses to gefitinib and erlotinib in NSCLC patients, and found that most are resistant to EGFR TKIs. 
METHODS: In the study, there were 123 patients who were diagnosed with advanced NSCLC in Zhejiang Province Cancer Hospital between January 2009 to October 2012, all of who were received gefitinib and erlotinib therapy after failure to chemotherapy. 
 OBJECTIVES: Gefitinib and erlotinib are oral epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) widely used in advanced NSCLC. 
Eligible studies included randomized controlled trials with gefitinib and erlotinib in advanced NSCLC patients. 
CONCLUSION: Treatment with EGFR TKIs gefitinib and erlotinib is associated with a significant increase in the risk of developing both all-grade and fatal ILD events in advanced NSCLC. 
In addition, several large phase III clinical trials (e.g., INFORM trial) provided evidence that maintenance therapy with gefitinib also significantly improved PFS in NSCLC patients, with greatest PFS benefit in patients harboring EGF-R mutations. 
The approval of pemetrexed and erlotinib by the FDA and the EMEA and the promising data with gefitinib have certainly shifted the pendulum towards maintenance therapy, however, the precise role for the treatment strategy of NSCLC in terms of a maintenance approach is far from being clear and additional studies are warranted to further clarify this option. 
 OBJECTIVE: To compare the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of erlotinib versus gefitinib as first-line treatment of epidermal growth factor receptor-activating mutation-positive NSCLC patients. 
In conclusion, erlotinib is cost-effective compared to gefitinib for first-line epidermal growth factor receptor-activating mutation-positive NSCLC patients. 
 Patients with NSCLC who have activating epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations benefit from treatment with EGFR-tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs), namely, gefitinib and erlotinib. 
In our previous study, we found that combined treatment with fulvestrant and gefitinib decreases the proliferation of H1975 NSCLC cells, compared to treatment with either fulvestrant or gefitinib alone; however, the molecular mechanism for the improved effects of the combination treatment are still unknown. 
We evaluated erlotinib and gefitinib as salvage treatments for NSCLC patients with brain metastases that failed to respond to radiotherapy in a retrospective study. 
The 103 NSCLC patients who were treated with gefitinib or erlotinib for salvage treatment for brain metastases between January 2005 and December 2011 had overall objective response rates (ORR) of 11.7%, disease control rates (DCR) of 53.4%, 3.6 months of median progression-free survival (PFS), and 7.5 months of median survival. 
Our retrospective data suggest a potential role for gefitinib and erlotinib in advanced NSCLC patients with brain metastases which have failed to respond to radiotherapy. 
 BACKGROUND: The efficacy of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) erlotinib is difficult to be accurately assessed in patients with NSCLC because it is commonly employed after failure of another EGFR-TKI, gefitinib. 
RESULTS: There were no significant differences in erlotinib efficacy between EGFR-mutated NSCLC with gefitinib resistance and NSCLC with wild-type EGFR. 
CONCLUSION: Erlotinib may be a therapeutic option for EGFR-mutated NSCLC with gefitinib resistance, as well as for NSCLC with wild-type EGFR. 
 Drugs directed against Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR), namely tyrosine kinase inhibitors erlotinib and gefitinib, and anti-angiogenic agents, namely the anti-Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF) antibody bevacizumab, have independently demonstrated clinical benefit in the treatment of patients with advanced NSCLC, and are currently approved for use in clinical practice. 
In this study, we investigated the antitumor activity of NPS-1034, a newly developed drug that targets both MET and AXL, in NSCLC cells with acquired resistance to gefitinib or erlotinib (HCC827/GR and HCC827/ER, respectively). 
NSCLCs with EGFR mutations, are characterized by excellent responses when treated with the EGFR-TKIs gefitinib and erlotinib. 
Drugs targeting mutant epidermal growth factor receptors, such as erlotinib and gefitinib, may provide more effective, safer and better tolerated treatment options compared with chemotherapy among appropriately selected patients with advanced NSCLC. 
The first-generation, reversible EGFR inhibitors erlotinib and gefitinib in the first-line setting provide superior progression-free survival and quality of life compared to conventional chemotherapy in NSCLC harboring activating EGFR mutations. 
Elderly patients affected by epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutated NSCLC benefit mostly from a tyrosine kinase inhibitor of EGFR (erlotinib, gefitinib) which is associated with a good toxicity profile. 
 Gefitinib and erlotinib are the two anti-epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) approved for treatment of advanced NSCLC patients. 
 OBJECTIVE: Few treatment options are available for advanced NSCLC patients who have failed of gefitinib or erlotinib treatment in second/third-line treatment. 
METHODS: The study included 58 patients with advanced NSCLC who had sensitizing EGFR mutations treated with first-line gefitinib or erlotinib, had baseline computed tomography (CT) scans available that revealed a measurable lung lesion, had at least 2 follow-up CT scans during TKI therapy, and had experienced volumetric tumor growth. 
METHODS: We analyzed 1,431 NSCLC patients who were treated with either gefitinib or erlotinib. 
 Activating mutation in exons 19 or 21 of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) in NSCLC are associated with increased sensitivity to EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs), such as gefitinib and erlotinib. 
Phase II trials and retrospective reviews for gefitinib and erlotinib demonstrate these agents may have a role in both the chemoprevention of brain metastases and, in combination with WBRT, treatment for NSCLC brain metastases. 
 Personalized therapy of advanced NSCLC has been improved by the introduction of EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs), gefitinib and erlotinib. 
METHODS: In retrospect, patients with advanced NSCLC or with postoperative relapse of advanced NSCLC achieved complete response (CR), partial response (PR) or stable disease (SD) in prior Gefitinib therapy, progression free survival (PFS) ≥3 months. 
CONCLUSIONS: Advanced NSCLC patients who benefited from prior Gefitinib therapy can benefit again either with the original drug Gefitinib or the alternative drug Erlotinib when a second TKI therapy is resumed. 
 PURPOSE: New molecular targeted agents are needed for patients with NSCLC who progress while receiving erlotinib, gefitinib, or both. 
CONCLUSION: Afatinib demonstrated modest but noteworthy efficacy in patients with NSCLC who had received third- or fourth-line treatment and who progressed while receiving erlotinib and/or gefitinib, including those with acquired resistance to erlotinib, gefitinib, or both. 
In particular, gefitinib and erlotinib have become the standard of care in patients harboring epidermal growth factor receptor mutations, while crizotinib showed an impressive efficacy in patients with ALK-positive NSCLC. 
The purpose of this study was to compare the efficacy of gefitinib and erlotinib for control of LMC in NSCLC. 
CONCLUSION: This study suggested that erlotinib had better control rate for LMC in NSCLC than gefitinib. 
METHODS: In 56 advanced NSCLC patients with sensitizing EGFR mutations treated with first-line erlotinib or gefitinib, tumor volumes of dominant lung lesions were measured on baseline and follow-up computed tomography, and were analyzed for association with survival. 
 PURPOSE: Common treatment modalities for NSCLC involve the EGF receptor-tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs) like gefitinib and erlotinib. 
Our purpose was to test ubiquitin-specific peptidase 8 (USP8) as a potential therapeutic target for gefitinib-resistant and -sensitive NSCLC. 
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Testing the effect of knockdown of USP8 and use of a synthetic USP8 inhibitor to selectively kill gefitinib-resistant (or -sensitive) NSCLCs with little effect on normal cells in cell culture and a xenograft mouse model. 
RESULTS: Knockdown of ubiquitin-specific peptidase 8 (USP8) selectively kills gefitinib-resistant NSCLCs while having little toxicity toward normal cells. 
We also determined that a synthetic USP8 inhibitor markedly decreased the viability of gefitinib-resistant and -sensitive NSCLC cells by decreasing RTK expression while having no effect on normal cells. 
Moreover, treatment with a USP8 inhibitor led to significant reductions in tumor size in a mouse xenograft model using gefitinib-resistant and -sensitive NSCLC cells. 
We propose USP8 as a potential therapeutic target for gefitinib-resistant and -sensitive NSCLC cells. 
CONCLUSION: EGFR activating mutations (exons 18 to 21) and EML4-ALK rearrangement are clinically important markers able to select NSCLC patients which benefit from EGFR or ALK tyrosine kinase inhibitors (gefitinib, erlotinib, crizotinib). 
Tyrosine kinase inhibitors, such as erlotinib and gefitinib, have been approved for the treatment of NSCLC, demonstrating an improvement in progression-free and overall survival, particularly in patients harboring activating EGFR mutations. 
Plasma DNA samples were obtained after discontinuation of gefitinib or erlotinib in 75 patients with NSCLC. 
 INTRODUCTION: Gefitinib induces severe hepatotoxicity in approximately a quarter of Japanese patients with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutation-positive NSCLC. 
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Polymorphisms of the CYP2D6 gene were analyzed in 55 patients with NSCLC who experienced grade ≥ 2 transaminase elevation from gefitinib. 
These trials showed promising efficacy in patients with EGFR-mutant NSCLC or enriched for clinical benefit from EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors gefitinib or erlotinib. 
These include v-Ki-ras2 Kirsten rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog (KRAS) mutations for the selection of patients with advanced colorectal cancer who are unlikely to benefit from anti-epidermal growth factor receptor antibodies (cetuximab or panitumumab), epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations for selecting patients with advanced NSCLC for treatment with tyrosine kinase inhibitors (gefitinib or erlotinib), v-raf murine sarcoma viral oncogene homolog B1 (BRAF) mutations for selecting patients with advanced melanoma for treatment with anti-BRAF agents (vemurafenib and dabrafenib), and anaplastic lymphoma receptor tyrosine kinase (ALK) translocations for identifying patients with NSCLC likely to benefit from crizotinib. 
 The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) gefitinib and erlotinib are known to have greater efficacy in EGFR mutation-positive NSCLC, although erlotinib also has activity in wild-type disease. 
We report the successful long-term maintenance treatment of a patient with EGFR wild-type NSCLC with gefitinib and later erlotinib. 
Drugs interfering with the tyrosine kinase domain of the EGFR (EGFR-TKI), such as erlotinib or gefitinib, demonstrated efficacy in patients with advanced NSCLC irrespective of therapy line and particularly in patients harboring activating mutations of the EGFR gene. 
Both of gefitinib and erlotinib had already been recommended as first line treatment in epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutant advanced NSCLC patients. 
The study aimed to compare the effectiveness and prognosis of advanced NSCLC with gefitinib or erlotinib, as well as the cost-effectiveness ratio of the two drugs. 
CONCLUSIONS: For EGFR mutant advanced NSCLC patients, equal efficacy and survival benefit were observed in patients with gefitinib and erlotinib. 
METHODS: We retrospectively screened 160 NSCLC patients harboring EGFR mutations, who had received either gefitinib, or erlotinib between 1992 and 2011. 
 In recent years, the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) family has become a key focus of NSCLC biology and targeted therapies, such as the reversible EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors erlotinib and gefitinib. 
These successes include imatinib for the treatment of chronic myeloid leukemia, anti-HER2 therapies (trastuzumab, pertuzumab, and lapatinib) to treat breast cancer, anti-EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors (gefitinib and erlotinib) to treat NSCLC, and anti-BRAF agents (vemurafenib and dabrafenib) to treat melanoma. 
 BACKGROUND: Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKI), gefitinib and erlotinib have been tested as maintenance therapy in patients with advanced NSCLC. 
METHODS: In September 2012 we performed a search in the pubmed, EMBASE and Cochrane library databases for randomized phase III trials exploring the role of gefitinib or erlotinib in advanced NSCLC. 
CONCLUSIONS: The results show that maintenance therapy with erlotinib or gefitinib produces a significant PFS and OS benefit for unselected patients with advanced NSCLC compared with placebo or observation. 
Tyrosine kinase inhibitors, such as erlotinib or gefitinib, have demonstrated promising results in patients with advanced NSCLC that harbor EGFR mutations. 
Subsequently EGFR TKIs (gefitinib, erlotinib or afatinib) or monoclonal antibody cetuximab were combined respectively with the c-MET-specific TKI su11274 in NSCLC cell lines. 
 Treatment for NSCLC with gefitinib and erlotinib is efficacious. 
The first two reversible EGFR-TKIs, erlotinib and gefitinib, are approved for use in the first-line setting in patients with known EGFR-activating mutations and in the second- and third-line settings for all NSCLC patients. 
Clinicians should be aware that gefitinib-induced neutropenia in patients with NSCLC can be treated successful by switching to erlotinib. 
In lung cancer, 10-15% of NSCLC contain activating mutations in the EGFR kinase conferring hypersensitivity to the oral TKIs gefitinib and erlotinib, have been demonstrated to be important predictive factors when selecting patients to be treated with these two agents. 
 The presence of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) somatic mutations in NSCLC patients is associated with response to treatment with EGFR-tyrosine kinase inhibitors, such as gefitinib and erlotinib. 
 Docetaxel, pemetrexed and epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors (gefitinib and erlotinib) are recommended second-line therapy for advanced NSCLC patients with disease progression. 
 INTRODUCTION: : Despite an initial dramatic response to the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) gefitinib and erlotinib, the majority of NSCLC patients with EGFR-activating mutations develop acquired resistance. 
EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs), such as gefitinib and erlotinib, have transformed therapy for patients with EGFR-mutant NSCLC and have proved superior to chemotherapy as first-line treatment for this patient group. 
Thus, low-dose erlotinib may be effective and well tolerated by patients with NSCLC harboring EGFR mutations who are intolerant to gefitinib. 
 OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the efficacy of erlotinib in patients with metastasis of NSCLC who had benefits from initial gefitinib treatment but finally demonstrated resistance, especially in those of unknown EGFR mutation status, and to compare the efficacy of erlotinib between patients who received erlotinib immediately after gefitinib failure and those who received chemotherapy before erlotinib. 
CONCLUSIONS: Erlotinib can be considered either immediately after gefitinib failure or following the insertion of chemotherapy after gefitinib failure in progressive NSCLC patients who initially benefited from gefitinib. 
 Previous studies have demonstrated that both gefitinib and erlotinib are markedly effective for the treatment of NSCLC with somatic activating mutations of the epidermal growth factor receptor gene (EGFR-mt). 
Here, we conducted a retrospective analysis of AEs and drug efficacy in patients with NSCLC whose EGFR mutation status had been confirmed and who all received 250 mg gefitinib or 150 mg erlotinib once daily. 
However, this study has several limitations as of the nature of retrospective design; our data suggest that gefitinib and erlotinib might have almost equal efficacy for patients with EGFR-wt NSCLC, as is the case for patients with EGFR-mt tumors, although erlotinib appears to have higher toxicity than gefitinib at each approved dose. 
 INTRODUCTION: Patients with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutation positive NSCLC exhibited marked response to gefitinib or erlotinib. 
METHODS: Patients with EGFR-mutant stage IIIB or IV NSCLC that progressed during gefitinib or erlotinib therapy were administered pemetrexed with the continuation of EGFR-TKI treatment. 
 Treatment of NSCLC with drugs targeting the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), e.g., gefitinib and erlotinib, will eventually fail because of the development of secondary mutations such as T790M in EGFR. 
In this study, we synthesized a dozen of novel gefitinib analogues and evaluated their effects on L858R/T790M-EGFR harboring NSCLC cells, and reported that one of these gefitinib mimetics, N-(2-bromo-5-(trifluoromethyl) phenyl)-6-methoxy-7-(3-(piperidin-1-yl)propoxy)quinazolin-4-amine (hereafter, V1801), triggered apoptosis of the NSCLC cells and overcame gefitinib-resistance in mice inoculated with NCI-H1975 cells. 
Growing clinical evidence supports a personalized approach to NSCLC treatment, and clinical trials in advanced disease have shown the value of testing for epidermal growth factor receptor gene (EGFR) mutations prior to first-line therapy with erlotinib or gefitinib and testing for anaplastic lymphoma kinase gene (ALK) rearrangements prior to therapy with crizotinib. 
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Data from 88 NSCLC patients receiving gefitinib (250 mg, daily [qd]), erlotinib (150 mg, qd), and ZD6474 (100 mg, qd) in three clinical trials (IRESSA registration clinical trial, TRUST study, ZD6474 study) during November 2003 to June 2005 were retrospectively analyzed. 
 NSCLCpatients with activating mutations of the epidermal growth factor receptor(EGFR)gene have shown a dramatic response to EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors(EGFR-TKI)such as gefitinib and erlotinib. 
 Erlotinib and gefitinib are tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKI) associated with the EGFR, which is involved in cell proliferation, growth, migration, invasion and survival, and has been found to be overexpressed in NSCLC. 
Erlotinib was the first target agent approved for the treatment of NSCLC in second- and third line, in patients unselected for EGFR mutations; gefitinib was the first EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor approved for the treatment of NSCLC in all lines of setting in patients harbouring EGFR mutations. 
 BACKGROUND: VeriStrat(®) is a serum proteomic test used to determine whether patients with advanced NSCLC who have already received chemotherapy are likely to have good or poor outcomes from treatment with gefitinib or erlotinib. 
Similarly to MET overexpression, the tumor microenvironment-derived ligand hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) was shown to activate Met and thereby induce short-term resistance to EGFR TKI treatment in gefitinib-sensitive NSCLC cell lines in vitro. 
Epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs), such as gefitinib, erlotinib and afatinib, have been investigated in the treatment of NSCLC, and to date a large amount of clinical data are available. 
This review will summarize the current evidence that strongly support the hypothesis that gefitinib, erlotinib and afatinib are ideal drugs for NSCLC patients carrying EGFR mutations. 
In particular, the tyrosine- kinase inhibitors (TKIs) gefitinib and erlotinib targeting the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) have been approved for the treatment of NSCLC. 
 PURPOSE: The epidermal growth factor receptor inhibitors, gefitinib and erlotinib, are used as standard salvage therapy for advanced NSCLC. 
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The Taiwan Cancer Registry and the National Health Insurance claim databases were searched for newly diagnosed patients with NSCLC from 2004 to 2007 who received gefitinib or erlotinib as third-line therapy. 
CONCLUSIONS: Gefitinib and erlotinib had similar efficacies as salvage therapy for advanced NSCLC in Taiwan. 
In particular, the tyrosine kinase inhibitors gefitinib and erlotinib have been approved for the treatment of NSCLC. 
Germline polymorphisms can be easily assessed in blood samples, and candidate polymorphisms in EGFR and ABCG2 have been correlated with outcome and toxicity in NSCLC patients treated with gefitinib or erlotinib. 
 PURPOSE: The prognostic and predictive value of pretreatment serum levels of carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) and cytokeratin-19 fragments (CYFRA 21-1) were assessed in advanced NSCLC patients treated with gefitinib or erlotinib. 
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Pretreatment CEA and CYFRA 21-1 were measured in 123 advanced NSCLC patients receiving gefitinib or erlotinib. 
CONCLUSION: h-CEA and l-CYFRA 21-1 may be prognostic and predictive serum markers for higher response and longer survival in patients with advanced NSCLC receiving gefitinib or erlotinib, especially in patients with unknown EGFR mutation status or patients with squamous cell carcinoma. 
 Gefitinib and erlotinib, epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs), are widely used anticancer drugs for patients with NSCLC, especially for those with EGFR-activating mutations. 
Here, we discuss the current commonly used predictive pharmacogenetic biomarkers in clinical oncology molecular testing: BRAF V600E for vemurafenib in melanoma; EML4-ALK for crizotinib and EGFR for erlotinib and gefitinib in NSCLC; KRAS against the use of cetuximab and panitumumab in colorectal cancer; ERBB2 (HER2/neu) for trastuzumab in breast cancer; BCR-ABL for tyrosine kinase inhibitors in chronic myeloid leukemia; and PML/RARα for all-trans-retinoic acid and arsenic trioxide treatment for acute promyelocytic leukemia. 
 PURPOSE: We performed this study to explore the association of computed tomography (CT) findings with outcomes of patients with NSCLC treated with tyrosin kinase inhibitor (TKI) such as gefitinib or erlotinib. 
 Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)--tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKI) like erlotinib and gefitinib have been approved as monotherapy for the treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC after failure of at least one prior chemotherapy regimen. 
The EGFR inhibitors gefitinib and erlotinib have a definite activity in brain metastases from NSCLC with activating EGFR mutations. 
This review assessed QOL outcomes of approved, guideline-supported 2L chemotherapy with docetaxel, erlotinib, gefitinib, and pemetrexed in advanced NSCLC. 
 PURPOSE: Several cases have been reported in which central nervous system (CNS) metastases of NSCLC resistant to gefitinib were improved by erlotinib. 
METHODS: We examined 15 Japanese patients with NSCLC and CNS metastases with epidermal growth factor receptor gene mutations who received CSF examinations during epidermal growth factor receptor-tyrosine kinase inhibitors treatment (250 mg daily gefitinib or 150 mg daily erlotinib). 
OS has been the principal endpoint influencing regulatory decisions regarding targeted therapies for metastatic NSCLC, including the vascular endothelial growth factor monoclonal antibody bevacizumab in the frontline setting and the epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors gefitinib and erlotinib in patients after prior treatment. 
The objective of this review was to assess the predictive value of skin rash for outcome in patients with NSCLC treated with erlotinib and gefitinib. 
 The oral tyrosine kinase inhibitors of epidermal growth factor, erlotinib and gefitinib, are active in the treatment of NSCLC. 
 INTRODUCTION: This retrospective study was undertaken to investigate the impact of specific mutant KRAS on clinical outcome to either gefitinib or erlotinib (EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor, EGFR-TKI) in patients with EGFR wild type (WT) advanced NSCLC. 
Our aim was to determine the correlations of these surrogates with survival in the treatment of advanced NSCLC (ANSCLC) with epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs), gefitinib and erlotinib. 
 PURPOSE: The epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR TKIs) gefitinib and erlotinib have shown dramatic response rate (RR) and significant prolongation of progression-free survival (PFS) in NSCLC patients with EGFR mutation. 
 PURPOSE: This retrospective study was undertaken to investigate the impact of initial gefitinib or erlotinib (EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor, EGFR-TKI) versus chemotherapy on the risk of central nervous system (CNS) progression in advanced NSCLC with EGFR mutations. 
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Patients with stage IV or relapsed NSCLC with a sensitizing EGFR mutation initially treated with gefitinib, erlotinib, or chemotherapy were identified. 
If validated, our results suggest that gefitinib and erlotinib may have a role in the chemoprevention of CNS metastases from NSCLC. 
 INTRODUCTION: Most NSCLC tumors with epidermal growth factor receptor mutations are responsive to EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors, such as gefitinib and erlotinib, but almost all such tumors ultimately acquire resistance. 
 Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitors, such as gefitinib and erlotinib, are effective for NSCLC with activating EGFR mutations. 
 While most patients with metastatic NSCLC containing sensitizing mutations in the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) gene will achieve an objective response to EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) such as erlotinib or gefitinib, patients inevitably develop resistance to these agents. 
NSCLC patients with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) gene mutations have shown a dramatic response to EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR-TKI) such as gefitinib and erlotinib. 
Several molecular aberrations have been identified in NSCLC, with subsequent development of drugs targeted to these aberrations; gefitinib, erlotinib, and cetuximab for the treatment of NSCLC harboring epidermal growth factor receptor mutation or overexpression, and crizotinib for the treatment of NSCLC with the EML4-ALK fusion translocation oncogene being some examples. 
 Erlotinib and gefitinib inhibit the growth of NSCLC tumors that harbor activating epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations but are ineffective against EGFR variants found in glioblastoma. 
There was also a considerable difference in the type and efficacy of salvage chemotherapeutic regimens between the two groups: salvage regimens with irinotecan, platinum, or taxanes were commonly used with relatively high objective responses in the SCLC regimen group, whereas frequently used agents in the NSCLC regimen group such as pemetrexed, gefitinib, or erlotinib were associated with no objective response. 
 BACKGROUND: NSCLC (nsclc) tumours with activating mutations of the epidermal growth factor receptor (efgr) tyrosine kinase are highly sensitized to the effects of oral tyrosine kinase inhibitors such as gefitinib and erlotinib, suggesting the possibility of targeted treatment of nsclc based on EFGR mutation status. 
To date, erlotinib and gefitinib have established themselves as first-line therapy for NSCLC patients whose tumors harbor an EGF receptor gene mutation, and hence, it is crucial that we identify mechanisms of resistance that could be targeted by novel agents, while keeping an acceptable toxicity profile at the same time; something very important when we develop these new drugs. 
 OBJECTIVE: Somatic mutations in the epidermal growth factor receptor gene are associated with a therapeutic response to epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors such as gefitinib and erlotinib in patients with NSCLC. 
METHODS: We performed a retrospective analysis of EGFR mutation-positive NSCLC patients who received both gefitinib and erlotinib at our institution. 
METHODS: NSCLC cells (cell lines HCC827, H292, H358, H1650, and H1975) were transfected with EGFR siRNA and/or treated with the TKIs gefitinib, erlotinib, and afatinib, and/or with the monoclonal antibody cetuximab. 
 BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) such as gefitinib and erlotinib show promising therapeutic effects in patients with advanced NSCLC. 
Currently available agents with established role in NSCLC include the anti-EGFR tyrosine-kinase inhibitors (TKIs) erlotinib/gefitinib and the anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody bevacizumab. 
 AIM: To evaluate the cost utility and budget impact of second-line gefitinib for NSCLC from a Thai payer perspective. 
CONCLUSION:   Gefitinib is a dominant cost saving strategy compared with docetaxel for the second-line treatment of advanced NSCLC from the Thai payer perspective. 
 Patients with advanced NSCLC and somatic activating mutations of the tyrosine kinase (TK) domain of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) gene represent a biologically distinct disease entity that shows exquisite sensitivity to the reversible EGFR-TK inhibitors (-TKIs) gefitinib or erlotinib. 
In the last decade, the tyrosine kinase (TK) domain of the EGFR was identified in NSCLC patients, and it has responded very well with a dramatic clinical improvement to TK inhibitors such are gefitinib and erlotinib. 
 PURPOSE: Recent studies have demonstrated that erlotinib therapy may be considered an option for patients with advanced NSCLC who experienced disease progression after treatment with gefitinib, particularly in patients in whom the disease had been stabilized for a long time prior to gefitinib therapy. 
Epidermal growth factor receptor-tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs), such as gefitinib and erlotinib, show favorable response to EGFR mutant lung cancer in some populations of NSCLC patients. 
To the best of our knowledge, to date, two reports have stated that patients with NSCLC who develop severe hepatotoxicity secondary to gefitinib treatment can be safely switched to erlotinib. 
Here, we present the first case with NSCLC harboring EGFR mutation who developed grade 3/4 hepatotoxicity after initiation of erlotinib, which resolved when therapy was changed to gefitinib. 
As far as we know, this is the first report showing the efficacy of gefitinib for a NSCLC patient who developed severe hepatotoxicity while under erlotinib therapy. 
At the moment, established personalized treatment approaches include treatment of patients with NSCLC and activating epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations with the EGFR-directed tyrosine kinase inhibitors gefitinib or erlotinib, and treatment of NSCLC patients with genetic aberrations in the anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) oncogene with the mesenchymal-epithelial transition factor (MET)/ALK inhibitor crizotinib. 
First-generation small molecule, reversible tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) of EGFR, gefitinib and erlotinib, had been approved for second- or third-line treatment of NSCLC prior to the knowledge of these mutations. 
Here I will review the clinical data of EGFR TKIs and discuss the appropriate future role of afatinib and dacomitinib in NSCLC: whether as replacement of erlotinib or gefitinib or only after erlotinib or gefitinib failure and whether different subgroups would benefit from different approaches. 
 Molecular target therapies using first-generation, reversible epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKI), such as gefitinib or erlotinib, have been shown to be effective for patients with NSCLC who harbor activating mutations in EGFR. 
In NSCLC activating somatic mutations in exons encoding the tyrosine kinase domain of the Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) gene have been found to be predictive of a response to treatment with tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKI), erlotinib or gefitinib. 
The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) inhibitors erlotinib and gefitinib have shown efficacy in patients with NSCLC and brain metastases. 
 The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) gefitinib and erlotinib have provided substantial benefits to patients with advanced NSCLC. 
METHODS: Patients with advanced NSCLC who had received prior platinum-doublet chemotherapy and/or erlotinib/gefitinib therapy, or who were ineligible for, or not amenable to, treatment with established therapies, received oral afatinib once daily. 
 Advanced NSCLC harboring activating mutations of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) are particularly sensitive to tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs), namely erlotinib and gefitinib. 
Eligible studies included published randomized controlled trials in which erlotinib or gefitinib (alone or with chemotherapy) were compared with standard therapy in 1260 patients with EGFR-mutated NSCLCs who were included in 13 trials. 
NSCLCs harboring EGFR mutations derive greater benefit from erlotinib or gefitinib than from chemotherapy. 
Inhibition of EGFR signaling has thus been identified as an attractive strategy in control of tumor proliferation, and over a decade of intense activity in the field has culminated in the discoveries and subsequent approvals of gefitinib and erlotinib for the treatment of NSCLC. 
 A study of patients with advanced non-squamous NSCLC evaluated epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutation status and serum hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) for their associations with response to gefitinib therapy and prognostic impact. 
We demonstrate that having HGF-positive serum is predictive of a negative response to gefitinib therapy in patients with advanced NSCLC who harbor wild-type EGFR. 
We found that a high efficacy of antitumor activity was shown with GDC-0941 treatment in two gefitinib-resistant NSCLC cell lines, A549 and H460. 
Additionally, the blockade of PI3K, mTOR and Erk with GDC-0941 and MEK inhibitors shows promise for treating gefitinib-resistant NSCLC. 
Among these 52 NSCLC patients, there were 14 patients treated with gefitinib. 
METHODS: This study examines the effect of the cytotoxic drug Gemcitabine and the EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor Gefitinib on the expression of NK group 2 member D (NKG2D) ligands as well as the sensitivity of NSCLC cells to the NK-mediated lysis. 
CONCLUSION: In keeping with the effect on NKG2D expression, Gemcitabine enhanced NK cell-mediated cytotoxicity while Gefitinib attenuated NK cell killing in NSCLC cells. 
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Patients with advanced NSCLC with a PS of 2 or 3 were enrolled into a multicenter randomized trial: arm A, gefitinib; arm B, gemcitabine; and arm C, docetaxel. 
 OBJECTIVE: To analyze the efficacy and survival associated factors of gefitinib combined with cisplatin and gemcitabine for advanced NSCLC. 
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 57 patients with advanced NSCLC, who received platinum-based chemotherapy regimens for more than 1 cycle, were treated with gefitinib combined with cisplatin and gemcitabine until disease progression. 
CONCLUSIONS: Gefitinib combined with cisplatin andgemcitabine, is effective for patients with IIIb~IV NSCLC who received multiple cycles of chemotherapy. 
Elderly patients affected by epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutated NSCLC benefit mostly from a tyrosine kinase inhibitor of EGFR (erlotinib, gefitinib) which is associated with a good toxicity profile. 
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Using the tetrazolium colorimetric assay and classical isobole method, we investigated the combination effects of 6 gefitinib-chemotherapeutic doublets (gefitinib/cisplatin, gemcitabine, pemetrexed, paclitaxel, docetaxel, or vinorelbine) in a panel of 15 NSCLC cell lines. 
CONCLUSION: Gefitinib-treated EGFR-TKI-sensitive NSCLC cells showed a wide spectrum of chemo-refractoriness, suggesting that concomitantly combined EGFR-TKI-chemotherapy might not be a good treatment strategy for NSCLC harboring SEM. 
 BACKGROUND: Gefitinib, a tyrosine kinase inhibitor, is an effective treatment in advanced NSCLC patients with an activating mutation in the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR). 
Therefore, this analysis evaluates the Quality Adjusted progression free survival of gefitinib versus three relevant doublet chemotherapies (gemcitabine/cisplatin (Gem/Cis); pemetrexed/cisplatin (Pem/Cis); paclitaxel/carboplatin (Pac/Carb)) in a Dutch health care setting in patients with EGFR M+ stage IIIB/IV NSCLC. 
CONCLUSIONS: In the Dutch health care setting, the previously established progression free survival benefit of first-line gefitinib in advanced NSCLC EGFR M+ patients in comparison to standard doublet chemotherapy is further supported by the Quality Adjusted PFS, which takes into account the additional health-related quality of life benefits of gefitinib over doublet chemotherapy. 
METHODS: The combination effects of gefitinib with three antimicrotubule agents (AMTAs), paclitaxel, docetaxel or vinorelbine, or with gemcitabine were tested in 17 NSCLC cell lines using the tetrazolium colorimetric assay and classical isobole method. 
CONCLUSIONS: Combined gefitinib/AMTAs showed synergism in NSCLC cells harboring no sensitizing EGFR mutations. 
 All patients with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutant advanced NSCLC treated with an EGFR-tyrosine kinase inhibitor (EGFR-TKI) such as gefitinib, erlotinib or afatinib will progress after a median of 9-12 months. 
 BACKGROUND: Afatinib has demonstrated clinical benefit in patients with NSCLC progressing after treatment with erlotinib/gefitinib. 
This randomized phase 2 study compared the efficacy of paclitaxel and carboplatin (PC) intercalated with gefitinib (G) versus PC alone in a selected, chemotherapy-naïve population of advanced NSCLC patients with a history of smoking or wild-type EGFR. 
 OBJECTIVE: Assess the cost-effectiveness of an EGFR-mutation testing strategy for advanced NSCLC in first-line therapy with either gefitinib or carboplatin-paclitaxel in Mexican institutions. 
 OBJECTIVES: The combination use of gefitinib and epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) testing is a standard first-line therapy for patients with NSCLC. 
CONCLUSION: The combination use of gefitinib and EGFR testing can be considered a cost-effective first-line therapy compared to chemotherapy such as carboplatin-paclitaxel for the treatment for NSCLC in Japan. 
 First-generation, reversible epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs), erlotinib and gefitinib, represented an important addition to the treatment armamentarium for NSCLC patients with activating EGFR mutations. 
Afatinib has also demonstrated clinical activity in NSCLC patients who had progressed on erlotinib/gefitinib, particularly when combined with cetuximab, and offers 'treatment beyond progression' benefit when combined with paclitaxel versus chemotherapy alone. 
We evaluated the efficacy of second-line platinum-based chemotherapy after gefitinib for advanced NSCLCs harboring epidermal growth factor receptor mutations (the NEJ002 study). 
METHODS: Seventy-one NSCLCs, treated with gefitinib as first-line therapy and then receiving platinum-based chemotherapy as second-line therapy were evaluated in NEJ002. 
CONCLUSIONS: NSCLC patients with a smoking history or the EGFR L858R mutation may demonstrate a poorer response to gefitinib treatment. 
However, first-line gefitinib should not be recommended for advanced NSCLC patients only based on clinical factors, due to a very small sample-size in our study. 
For exploring the mechanism of the failed combination therapy in lung cancer, in the present study, four therapy assessment groups, including a control group, a chemotherapy group [paclitaxel+cisplatin (TP)], a gefitinib monotherapy group (G) and a combination group[paclitaxel+cisplatin+gefitinib (TP+G)], were established in an A549 cell line and mouse xenotransplanted tumor models.By HPLC, we found that the gefitinib concentration was significantly higher in the combination group when compared to that in the G group in the NSCLC cell line, A549 (p<0.05). 
Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs), such as gefitinib, erlotinib or afatinib are the standard-of-care for patients with advanced NSCLC harbouring activating EGFR mutations. 
 BACKGROUND: This study was conducted to evaluate the efficacy and safety of paclitaxel-carboplatin combined with intercalated gefitinib in patients with advanced, untreated, nonsquamous NSCLC. 
CONCLUSIONS: The post-hoc analyses clearly demonstrated shorter survival for gefitinib-treated patients with uncommon EGFR mutations compared with the survival of those with common mutations and suggest that the first-line chemotherapy may be relatively effective for NSCLC with uncommon EGFR mutations. 
METHODS: The Iressa Alliance program provided standardized EGFR mutation testing and appropriate access to gefitinib to all patients in British Columbia with advanced, non squamous NSCLC. 
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Using the tetrazolium colorimetric assay and classical isobole method, we investigated the combination effects of 6 gefitinib-chemotherapeutic doublets (gefitinib/cisplatin, gemcitabine, pemetrexed, paclitaxel, docetaxel, or vinorelbine) in a panel of 15 NSCLC cell lines. 
CONCLUSION: Gefitinib-treated EGFR-TKI-sensitive NSCLC cells showed a wide spectrum of chemo-refractoriness, suggesting that concomitantly combined EGFR-TKI-chemotherapy might not be a good treatment strategy for NSCLC harboring SEM. 
Thus, low-dose erlotinib may be effective and well tolerated by patients with NSCLC harboring EGFR mutations who are intolerant to gefitinib. 
 BACKGROUND: NEJ002 study, comparing gefitinib with carboplatin (CBDCA) and paclitaxel (PTX; Taxol) as the first-line treatment for advanced NSCLC harboring an epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutation, previously reported superiority of gefitinib over CBDCA/PTX on progression-free survival (PFS). 
Considering the many benefits and the risk of missing an opportunity to use the most effective agent for EGFR-mutated NSCLC, the first-line gefitinib is strongly recommended. 
 BACKGROUND: Gefitinib, a tyrosine kinase inhibitor, is an effective treatment in advanced NSCLC patients with an activating mutation in the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR). 
Therefore, this analysis evaluates the Quality Adjusted progression free survival of gefitinib versus three relevant doublet chemotherapies (gemcitabine/cisplatin (Gem/Cis); pemetrexed/cisplatin (Pem/Cis); paclitaxel/carboplatin (Pac/Carb)) in a Dutch health care setting in patients with EGFR M+ stage IIIB/IV NSCLC. 
CONCLUSIONS: In the Dutch health care setting, the previously established progression free survival benefit of first-line gefitinib in advanced NSCLC EGFR M+ patients in comparison to standard doublet chemotherapy is further supported by the Quality Adjusted PFS, which takes into account the additional health-related quality of life benefits of gefitinib over doublet chemotherapy. 
METHODS: The combination effects of gefitinib with three antimicrotubule agents (AMTAs), paclitaxel, docetaxel or vinorelbine, or with gemcitabine were tested in 17 NSCLC cell lines using the tetrazolium colorimetric assay and classical isobole method. 
CONCLUSIONS: Combined gefitinib/AMTAs showed synergism in NSCLC cells harboring no sensitizing EGFR mutations. 
 BACKGROUND: For NSCLC patients with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations, first-line gefitinib produced a longer progression-free survival interval than first-line carboplatin plus paclitaxel but did not show any survival advantage in the North East Japan 002 study. 
METHODS: Chemotherapy-naïve patients with sensitive EGFR-mutated, advanced NSCLC were randomized to receive gefitinib or chemotherapy (carboplatin and paclitaxel). 
CONCLUSION: QoL was maintained much longer in patients treated with gefitinib than in patients treated with standard chemotherapy, indicating that gefitinib should be considered as the standard first-line therapy for advanced EGFR-mutated NSCLC in spite of no survival advantage. 
Randomised trials over the past 10-15 years have established pemetrexed (non-squamous histology), docetaxel, erlotinib and gefitinib as approved second-line agents in NSCLC without targetable driver mutations or rearrangements. 
Trials comparing these agents with other chemotherapy, evaluating the addition of an epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) to chemotherapy or the addition of another targeted agent to erlotinib or gefitinib have all failed to demonstrate an improvement in overall survival for patients with NSCLC. 
 PURPOSE: To determine whether the addition of pemetrexed to gefitinib (P+G) provides clinical benefit, compared with gefitinib monotherapy, in patients with advanced nonsquamous (NS) NSCLC and activating epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations. 
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Chemotherapy-naïve for advanced NSCLC patients from China, Japan, Korea, and Taiwan (35 sites) with advanced, EGFR-mutant, NS NSCLC were randomly assigned (2:1; computer-generated, interactive voice response) to open-label pemetrexed (500 mg/m(2) on day 1 of every 21-day cycle) plus gefitinib (250 mg/d [n = 129]) or gefitinib alone (n = 66). 
CONCLUSION: P+G improved PFS compared with gefitinib alone in East Asian patients with advanced NS NSCLC and activating EGFR mutations. 
 To evaluate the efficacy and safety of a combination regimen of gefitinib and pemetrexed as first-line chemotherapy in advanced EGFR-mutated NSCLC patients. 
Patients and methods Patients with advanced non-squamous NSCLC harboring asensitive EGFR mutation were included in this study and randomly divided into gefitinib + placebo group and gefitinib + pemetrexed group. 
The aim of this study was to investigate the potential of combining gefitinib and pemetrexed in preventing the acquisition of resistance to EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors in NSCLC cell lines harboring EGFR exon 19 deletion. 
METHODS: The effect of different combinatorial schedules of gefitinib and pemetrexed on cell proliferation, cell cycle, apoptosis, and acquisition of gefitinib resistance in PC9 and HCC827 NSCLC cell lines and in PC9 xenograft models was investigated. 
 First-Line Pemetrexed Plus Cisplatin Followed by Gefitinib Maintenance Therapy Versus Gefitinib Monotherapy in East Asian Never-Smoker Patients With Locally Advanced or Metastatic Nonsquamous NSCLC: Quality of Life Results From a Randomized Phase III Trial. 
 BACKGROUND: The efficacy results from an open-label, randomized, multicenter study found no significant difference in progression-free survival between pemetrexed plus cisplatin followed by maintenance gefitinib (PC/G) and gefitinib monotherapy (G) in patients with advanced nonsquamous NSCLC and unknown epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutation status (hazard ratio favored PC/G). 
These LCSS outcomes provide further evidence that patients with wild-type EGFR might not benefit from first-line treatment of advanced NSCLC with gefitinib. 
 First-Line Pemetrexed plus Cisplatin followed by Gefitinib Maintenance Therapy versus Gefitinib Monotherapy in East Asian Never-Smoker Patients with Locally Advanced or Metastatic Nonsquamous NSCLC: Final Overall Survival Results from a Randomized Phase 3 Study. 
 INTRODUCTION: The primary analysis of this open-label, randomized, multicenter phase 3 study revealed no significant difference in progression-free survival between pemetrexed plus cisplatin followed by maintenance gefitinib (PC/G) and gefitinib monotherapy (G) in patients with advanced nonsquamous NSCLC and unknown epidermal growth factor receptor gene (EGFR) mutation status; however, the hazard ratio favored PC/G. 
 Tolerability and Outcomes of First-Line Pemetrexed-Cisplatin Followed by Gefitinib Maintenance Therapy Versus Gefitinib Monotherapy in Korean Patients with Advanced Nonsquamous NSCLC: A Post Hoc Descriptive Subgroup Analysis of a Randomized, Phase 3 Trial. 
 PURPOSE: We recently reported on a randomized, open-label, phase 3 trial comparing pemetrexed-cisplatin chemotherapy followed by gefitinib maintenance therapy (PC/G) with gefitinib monotherapy in patients with NSCLC. 
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Patients, who were ≥ 18 years, chemonaïve, Korean, light ex-smokers/never-smokers with advanced NSCLC, were randomly assigned (1:1) to PC/G or gefitinib monotherapy. 
CONCLUSION: Our results confirm that both PC/G and gefitinib were well tolerated in Korean patients, regardless of EGFR status; however, patients with EGFR wild-type NSCLC may not benefit from gefitinib monotherapy. 
We evaluated the efficacy and safety of a combination regimen of gefitinib and pemetrexed as first-line chemotherapy in EGFR-mutated NSCLC patients. 
We aimed to assess the efficacy and safety of continuing gefitinib combined with chemotherapy versus chemotherapy alone in patients with EGFR-mutation-positive advanced NSCLC with acquired resistance to first-line gefitinib. 
Eligible patients were aged at least 18 years with histologically confirmed, chemotherapy-naive, stage IIIB-IV EGFR-mutation-positive advanced NSCLC with previous disease control with first-line gefitinib and recent disease progression (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1). 
 Gefitinib was compared with pemetrexed as maintenance therapy in Patients with Advanced Glandular NSCLC, mainly regarding clinical effect and side effect. 
Drugs interfering with the tyrosine kinase domain of the EGFR (EGFR TKIs), such as erlotinib and gefitinib, have demonstrated efficacy in patients with advanced NSCLC irrespective of therapy line and particularly in patients harbouring activating mutations in the EGFR gene (EGFR(mut+)). 
 PURPOSE: Gefitinib is an effective first-line chemotherapy for advanced NSCLC patients harboring sensitive EGFR mutations. 
Therefore, we here aimed to investigate the efficacy of platinum combination chemotherapy after first-line gefitinib treatment in NSCLC patients harboring sensitive EGFR mutations. 
METHODS/PATIENTS: We retrospectively evaluated the clinical effects of second-line platinum combination chemotherapy after first-line gefitinib treatment in NSCLC patients harboring sensitive EGFR mutations (exon 19 deletion or exon 21 L858R mutation) at five institutions. 
CONCLUSIONS: Second-line platinum combination chemotherapy after first-line gefitinib treatment in NSCLC patients harboring sensitive EGFR mutations was effective and showed equivalent outcomes to first-line platinum combination chemotherapy. 
 PURPOSE: This study aimed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of pemetrexed versus gefitinib in patients with advanced NSCLC previously treated with chemotherapy. 
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Patients with advanced (stage IIIB or IV) or recurrent NSCLC were randomly assigned to receive either 500 mg/m² of pemetrexed intravenously every 3 weeks or gefitinib 250 mg/day orally. 
CONCLUSION: Both pemetrexed and gefitinib had similar efficacy with good tolerability as second-line treatment in unselected patients with advanced NSCLC. 
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Chemotherapy-naïve patients with advanced non-squamous, EGFR-mutant NSCLC were randomly assigned to receive either a concurrent or a sequential alternating regimen with gefitinib (250 mg) and carboplatin/pemetrexed [area under the curve (AUC) = 6 and 500 mg/m(2); 3-weekly]. 
 PURPOSE: To evaluate the efficacy and safety of alternating gefitinib and erlotinib, tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), with chemotherapy in NSCLC patients with acquired TKI resistance. 
Gefitinib, a small-molecule epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI), has already been recommended as a first-line treatment in EGFR-mutant metastatic NSCLC. 
We report rare presentation of TEN involving adverse effects of AP and gefitinib combination treatment in a 42-year-old woman diagnosed with metastatic NSCLC harboring an EGFR mutation. 
 BACKGROUND: CTONG0806 assessed the efficacy of pemetrexed versus gefitinib as second-line treatment in advanced nonsquamous NSCLC harboring wild-type epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR). 
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients with locally advanced or metastatic nonsquamous NSCLC harboring wild-type EGFR, detected by direct sequencing, and previously treated with platinum-based chemotherapy were randomized to receive gefitinib (250 mg/day) orally or pemetrexed (500 mg/m(2)) i.v. 
CONCLUSIONS: CTONG0806 is the first trial to show significant improvement in PFS and an improved OS trend with pemetrexed compared with gefitinib as second-line setting treatment of EGFR wild-type advanced nonsquamous NSCLC. 
 The availability of antineoplastic monoclonal antibodies, small molecules and newer cytotoxics such as pemetrexed, the EGFR-tyrosine kinase inhibitors erlotinib, gefitinib, afatinib as well as the anti-angiogenic bevacizumab and the ALK-inhibitor crizotinib has recently changes the treatment algorithm of advanced NSCLC. 
Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs), such as gefitinib, erlotinib or afatinib are the standard-of-care for patients with advanced NSCLC harbouring activating EGFR mutations. 
The discovery of a number of lung cancer-molecular alterations contributes to uniquely targeted therapies with specific inhibitors for NSCLC such as erlotinib, gefitinib and crizotinib. 
V1801, an analog of gefitinib may overcome gefitinib resistance in patients with NSCLC. 
The purpose of the present study was to investigate the combined effects of gefitinib and pemetrexed on EGFR-TKI-sensitive and EGFR‑TKI‑resistant human NSCLC cell lines. 
The antiproliferative effects of gefitinib and pemetrexed, alone and in combination, on the growth of NSCLC cell lines, were assessed using an MTT assay. 
In the present study, it was identified that when cells were concurrently exposed to pemetrexed and gefitinib, cytotoxic synergism was present in the gefitinib-resistant PC9/GR human NSCLC cell line and antagonistic interactions were observed in the gefitinib-sensitive PC9 cell line. 
The combination of pemetrexed and gefitinib generated synergistic effects in gefitinib-acquired resistant cells and antagonistic effects in gefitinib-sensitive cells, suggesting that EGFR-TKIs combined with pemetrexed may be a beneficial treatment strategy for NSCLC patients with acquired resistance to EGFR-TKIs. 
The aim of this study was to determine whether the administration of gefitinib, a tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI), intercalated with pemetrexed/platinum could improve the efficacy in chemotherapy-naïve patients with advanced non-squamous NSCLC without subsequent gefitinib maintenance therapy. 
Treatment-naïve patients with stage IIIB or IV NSCLC were randomly assigned to receive pemetrexed (500 mg/m (2) d1) and either cisplatin (75 mg/m (2) d1) or carboplatin (AUC = 5 d1) plus gefitinib (250 mg/d on days 3 to 16 of a 3-week cycle) (PC-G) or pemetrexed-platinum (PC) alone. 
 Acquired resistance of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) has been developed as an important clinical problem though EGFR-TKI such as gefitinib, erlotinib and afatinib [1,2] has achieved 8-14 months of progression free survival in advanced NSCLC patient with EGFR mutation. 
METHODS: In this open-label, phase II study, patients with resected stage IIIA-N2 NSCLC harbouring EGFR mutations (either exon 19 deletion or L858R point mutation) were assigned randomly to receive pemetrexed (500 mg/m(2)) and carboplatin (AUC = 5), administered every 21 days for 4 cycles, followed with or without gefitinib (250 mg/day) for 6 months. 
CONCLUSIONS: The administration of gefitinib following PC adjuvant therapy shows significant improvement in DFS in patients with resected stage IIIA-N2 NSCLC harbouring EGFR mutations. 
In addition, several large phase III clinical trials (e.g., INFORM trial) provided evidence that maintenance therapy with gefitinib also significantly improved PFS in NSCLC patients, with greatest PFS benefit in patients harboring EGF-R mutations. 
The approval of pemetrexed and erlotinib by the FDA and the EMEA and the promising data with gefitinib have certainly shifted the pendulum towards maintenance therapy, however, the precise role for the treatment strategy of NSCLC in terms of a maintenance approach is far from being clear and additional studies are warranted to further clarify this option. 
We retrospectively reviewed 81 advanced NSCLC patients with disease progression following tumor response and durable (≥ 6 months) disease stabilization with first-line or second-line gefitinib. 
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Using the tetrazolium colorimetric assay and classical isobole method, we investigated the combination effects of 6 gefitinib-chemotherapeutic doublets (gefitinib/cisplatin, gemcitabine, pemetrexed, paclitaxel, docetaxel, or vinorelbine) in a panel of 15 NSCLC cell lines. 
CONCLUSION: Gefitinib-treated EGFR-TKI-sensitive NSCLC cells showed a wide spectrum of chemo-refractoriness, suggesting that concomitantly combined EGFR-TKI-chemotherapy might not be a good treatment strategy for NSCLC harboring SEM. 
 BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Gefitinib and Pemetrexed are drugs used as second-line therapy for advanced NSCLC, although studies comparing the two drugs are limited. 
The aim of this study is to explore the effects, safety, and quality of life (QoL) of Gefitinib and Pemetrexed on patients with advanced non-squamous NSCLC. 
METHODS: Forty-six advanced non-squamous NSCLC patients who failed to first-line therapy were randomly divided into two groups with 23 patients each, one using oral Gefitinib (Gefitinib group) and the other using intravenous injection Pemetrexed (Pemetrexed group). 
 Docetaxel, pemetrexed and epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors (gefitinib and erlotinib) are recommended second-line therapy for advanced NSCLC patients with disease progression. 
 INTRODUCTION: Patients with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutation positive NSCLC exhibited marked response to gefitinib or erlotinib. 
METHODS: Patients with EGFR-mutant stage IIIB or IV NSCLC that progressed during gefitinib or erlotinib therapy were administered pemetrexed with the continuation of EGFR-TKI treatment. 
 BACKGROUND: NEJ002 study, comparing gefitinib with carboplatin (CBDCA) and paclitaxel (PTX; Taxol) as the first-line treatment for advanced NSCLC harboring an epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutation, previously reported superiority of gefitinib over CBDCA/PTX on progression-free survival (PFS). 
Considering the many benefits and the risk of missing an opportunity to use the most effective agent for EGFR-mutated NSCLC, the first-line gefitinib is strongly recommended. 
 BACKGROUND: Gefitinib, a tyrosine kinase inhibitor, is an effective treatment in advanced NSCLC patients with an activating mutation in the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR). 
Therefore, this analysis evaluates the Quality Adjusted progression free survival of gefitinib versus three relevant doublet chemotherapies (gemcitabine/cisplatin (Gem/Cis); pemetrexed/cisplatin (Pem/Cis); paclitaxel/carboplatin (Pac/Carb)) in a Dutch health care setting in patients with EGFR M+ stage IIIB/IV NSCLC. 
CONCLUSIONS: In the Dutch health care setting, the previously established progression free survival benefit of first-line gefitinib in advanced NSCLC EGFR M+ patients in comparison to standard doublet chemotherapy is further supported by the Quality Adjusted PFS, which takes into account the additional health-related quality of life benefits of gefitinib over doublet chemotherapy. 
This review assessed QOL outcomes of approved, guideline-supported 2L chemotherapy with docetaxel, erlotinib, gefitinib, and pemetrexed in advanced NSCLC. 
There was also a considerable difference in the type and efficacy of salvage chemotherapeutic regimens between the two groups: salvage regimens with irinotecan, platinum, or taxanes were commonly used with relatively high objective responses in the SCLC regimen group, whereas frequently used agents in the NSCLC regimen group such as pemetrexed, gefitinib, or erlotinib were associated with no objective response. 
METHODS: East Asian, never-smoker, chemo-naïve patients with stage IIIB/IV NSCLC, performance status ≤1 and unknown EGFR mutation status were randomized 1:1 to receive 4 cycles of pemetrexed [500 mg/m(2)]+cisplatin [75 mg/m(2)] q3 weeks, followed by maintenance with either gefitinib [250 mg/d] (PC/G) or pemetrexed [500 mg/m(2)] q3 weeks and ≤2 optional cycles of cisplatin (PC/P). 
 AIM: To evaluate the cost utility and budget impact of second-line gefitinib for NSCLC from a Thai payer perspective. 
CONCLUSION:   Gefitinib is a dominant cost saving strategy compared with docetaxel for the second-line treatment of advanced NSCLC from the Thai payer perspective. 
 We present the rationale and study design of the CGMT (combined gefitinib and metformin therapy) trial (www.ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT01864681), which is aimed at treating locally advanced NSCLC. 
The CGMT trial is a multicenter, phase II randomized, double-blinded, and placebo-controlled study, which is designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of metformin in combination with gefitinib as first-line therapy in patients presenting with stage IIIb-IV NSCLC expressing the epidermal growth factor receptor mutant. 
 BACKGROUND: Gefitinib, erlotinib, and afatinib are tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) used for treatment of advanced epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutated NSCLC. 
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Erlotinib, gefitinib, and afatinib are all active agents in EGFR M+ NSCLC patients, and demonstrate an increased tumour response rate and prolonged progression-free survival compared to cytotoxic chemotherapy. 
Cytotoxic chemotherapy is less effective in EGFR M+ NSCLC than erlotinib, gefitinib, or afatinib and is associated with greater toxicity. 
 To evaluate the efficacy and safety of a combination regimen of gefitinib and pemetrexed as first-line chemotherapy in advanced EGFR-mutated NSCLC patients. 
Patients and methods Patients with advanced non-squamous NSCLC harboring asensitive EGFR mutation were included in this study and randomly divided into gefitinib + placebo group and gefitinib + pemetrexed group. 
This is the first randomized clinical trial that showed a significant and clinical meaningful OS benefit in EGFR mutation-positive NSCLC patients following maintenance therapy with gefitinib as compared to placebo. 
We aimed to assess the efficacy and safety of continuing gefitinib combined with chemotherapy versus chemotherapy alone in patients with EGFR-mutation-positive advanced NSCLC with acquired resistance to first-line gefitinib. 
Eligible patients were aged at least 18 years with histologically confirmed, chemotherapy-naive, stage IIIB-IV EGFR-mutation-positive advanced NSCLC with previous disease control with first-line gefitinib and recent disease progression (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1). 
 BACKGROUND: Patients with advanced NSCLC harboring mutations of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) gene respond well to the EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) gefitinib. 
A total of 70 NSCLC patients with EGFR mutations will be randomly assigned to treatment group (gefitinib plus FZKA granules) or control group (gefitinib plus placebo). 
This study will provide objective evidence to evaluate the efficiency of CHM combined with gefitinib in NSCLC patients with EGFR mutations, and may provide a novel regimen for patients with NSCLC. 
 Final overall survival results from a phase III, randomized, placebo-controlled, parallel-group study of gefitinib versus placebo as maintenance therapy in patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC (INFORM; C-TONG 0804). 
 BACKGROUND: The results of the Iressa in NSCLC for maintenance study (NCT00770588; C-TONG 0804), which compared gefitinib and placebo as maintenance therapy in patients with advanced NSCLC without disease progression after first-line chemotherapy, were published previously. 
 Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) have been extensively investigated in previously treated advanced NSCLC, but what it is still unclear is the efficacy of (EFGR-TKIs: gefitinib or erlotinib) monotherapy in previously treated NSCLC. 
In December 2013, we performed a search in the PubMed, EMBASE, Cochrane library databases and Web of Science for randomized trials exploring the role of gefitinib or erlotinib in advanced NSCLC. 
 BACKGROUND: Maintenance gefitinib significantly prolonged progression-free survival (PFS) compared with placebo in patients from eastern Asian with locally advanced/metastatic NSCLC after four chemotherapeutic cycles (21 days per cycle) of first-line platinum-based combination chemotherapy without disease progression. 
The objective of the current study was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of maintenance gefitinib therapy after four chemotherapeutic cycle's stand first-line platinum-based chemotherapy for patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with unknown EGFR mutations, from a Chinese health care system perspective. 
CONCLUSIONS: Maintenance gefitinib following first-line platinum-based chemotherapy for patients with locally advanced/metastatic NSCLC with unknown EGFR mutations is not cost-effective. 
In addition, several large phase III clinical trials (e.g., INFORM trial) provided evidence that maintenance therapy with gefitinib also significantly improved PFS in NSCLC patients, with greatest PFS benefit in patients harboring EGF-R mutations. 
The approval of pemetrexed and erlotinib by the FDA and the EMEA and the promising data with gefitinib have certainly shifted the pendulum towards maintenance therapy, however, the precise role for the treatment strategy of NSCLC in terms of a maintenance approach is far from being clear and additional studies are warranted to further clarify this option. 
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients with completely resected (stage IB, II, or IIIA) NSCLC stratified by stage, histology, sex, postoperative radiotherapy, and chemotherapy were randomly assigned (1:1) to receive gefitinib 250 mg per day or placebo for 2 years. 
 BACKGROUND: Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKI), gefitinib and erlotinib have been tested as maintenance therapy in patients with advanced NSCLC. 
METHODS: In September 2012 we performed a search in the pubmed, EMBASE and Cochrane library databases for randomized phase III trials exploring the role of gefitinib or erlotinib in advanced NSCLC. 
CONCLUSIONS: The results show that maintenance therapy with erlotinib or gefitinib produces a significant PFS and OS benefit for unselected patients with advanced NSCLC compared with placebo or observation. 
This review assessed QOL outcomes of approved, guideline-supported 2L chemotherapy with docetaxel, erlotinib, gefitinib, and pemetrexed in advanced NSCLC. 
 While most patients with metastatic NSCLC containing sensitizing mutations in the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) gene will achieve an objective response to EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) such as erlotinib or gefitinib, patients inevitably develop resistance to these agents. 
INTERPRETATION: Maintenance treatment with gefitinib significantly prolonged progression-free survival compared with placebo in patients from east Asia with advanced NSCLC who achieved disease control after first-line chemotherapy. 
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A phase II trial was conducted in patients with stage III/IV NSCLC, to assess the efficacy, safety and impact on quality of life (QoL) and disease-related symptoms of gefitinib rechallenge. 
We report of an elderly patient with NSCLC who responded to S-1 monotherapy following gefitinib therapy. 
Gefitinib following S-1 monotherapy resulted in long-term tumor size control for a total of 27 months in an elderly patient with advanced NSCLC.S -1 monotherapy might be one of the options for salvage therapy after gefitinib treatment becomes ineffective. 
 PURPOSE: Gefitinib is an effective first-line chemotherapy for advanced NSCLC patients harboring sensitive EGFR mutations. 
Therefore, we here aimed to investigate the efficacy of platinum combination chemotherapy after first-line gefitinib treatment in NSCLC patients harboring sensitive EGFR mutations. 
METHODS/PATIENTS: We retrospectively evaluated the clinical effects of second-line platinum combination chemotherapy after first-line gefitinib treatment in NSCLC patients harboring sensitive EGFR mutations (exon 19 deletion or exon 21 L858R mutation) at five institutions. 
CONCLUSIONS: Second-line platinum combination chemotherapy after first-line gefitinib treatment in NSCLC patients harboring sensitive EGFR mutations was effective and showed equivalent outcomes to first-line platinum combination chemotherapy. 
 PURPOSE: Efficacy of gefitinib therapy strongly depends on epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutation status in patients with NSCLC. 
The aim of this trial was to evaluate the efficacy and toxicity of gefitinib in NSCLC patients with WT EGFR who failed previous chemotherapy. 
CONCLUSION: Small proportion of NSCLC patients with the WT EGFR benefits with gefitinib. 
We evaluated the efficacy of second-line platinum-based chemotherapy after gefitinib for advanced NSCLCs harboring epidermal growth factor receptor mutations (the NEJ002 study). 
METHODS: Seventy-one NSCLCs, treated with gefitinib as first-line therapy and then receiving platinum-based chemotherapy as second-line therapy were evaluated in NEJ002. 
The upregulation of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) due to mutations has been observed in a number of cancers, and tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs), such as gefitinib and erlotinib, which specifically target EGFR signaling, have been used to treat NSCLC patients. 
METHODS: The Iressa Alliance program provided standardized EGFR mutation testing and appropriate access to gefitinib to all patients in British Columbia with advanced, non squamous NSCLC. 
Clinicians should be aware that gefitinib-induced neutropenia in patients with NSCLC can be treated successful by switching to erlotinib. 
 BACKGROUND: Disease progression remains the major challenge in the management of advanced (stage IIIb or IV) NSCLC after the failure of first-line or second-line chemotherapy, or even of targeted therapies such as gefitinib. 
The current study evaluated the tolerability and efficacy of stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) in combined with gefitinib as a second-line or third-line treatment in patients with advanced NSCLC. 
CONCLUSIONS: The SBRT combined with gefitinib is a promising treatment strategy for advanced (stage IIIb or IV) NSCLC after the failure of previously chemotherapy. 
 Gefitinib and erlotinib, epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs), are widely used anticancer drugs for patients with NSCLC, especially for those with EGFR-activating mutations. 
PATIENTS AND METHODS: This phase II study evaluated the efficacy of gefitinib 250 mg once daily in combination with thoracic radiotherapy (66 Gy in 6.5 weeks, 2 Gy/day, 5 fractions/week) followed by consolidation chemotherapy (IV cisplatin and vinorelbine) as first line treatment in a population of unselected stage IIIB NSCLC patients according to EGFR mutation status. 
We report of an elderly patient with NSCLC who responded to S-1 monotherapy following gefitinib therapy. 
Gefitinib following S-1 monotherapy resulted in long-term tumor size control for a total of 27 months in an elderly patient with advanced NSCLC.S -1 monotherapy might be one of the options for salvage therapy after gefitinib treatment becomes ineffective. 
The antitumor efficacy of different treatment sequences using vinorelbine (VNB) and gefitinib (GEF) was investigated both in vitro and in vivo in NSCLC cell lines with the rationale of potentially translating these findings into the clinical setting. 
Elderly patients affected by epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutated NSCLC benefit mostly from a tyrosine kinase inhibitor of EGFR (erlotinib, gefitinib) which is associated with a good toxicity profile. 
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Using the tetrazolium colorimetric assay and classical isobole method, we investigated the combination effects of 6 gefitinib-chemotherapeutic doublets (gefitinib/cisplatin, gemcitabine, pemetrexed, paclitaxel, docetaxel, or vinorelbine) in a panel of 15 NSCLC cell lines. 
CONCLUSION: Gefitinib-treated EGFR-TKI-sensitive NSCLC cells showed a wide spectrum of chemo-refractoriness, suggesting that concomitantly combined EGFR-TKI-chemotherapy might not be a good treatment strategy for NSCLC harboring SEM. 
METHODS: The combination effects of gefitinib with three antimicrotubule agents (AMTAs), paclitaxel, docetaxel or vinorelbine, or with gemcitabine were tested in 17 NSCLC cell lines using the tetrazolium colorimetric assay and classical isobole method. 
CONCLUSIONS: Combined gefitinib/AMTAs showed synergism in NSCLC cells harboring no sensitizing EGFR mutations. 
